
New Convo:

"I cannot but muse that I am on the losing end of this bargain, 'tis true."
"Look, I said I was sorry."
"Oh, aye, if it's a question of who is in the wrong and who should be apologizing, 'tis you and sure enough. I help ease night's chill as I can, and I'm even generous enough not to charge you for the favor."
"And yet! There are things one may do and things one may not, nay?"
"'Tis bad enough that you humans tread so easily upon one's feet when you are fully awake. But even when you are asleep! But lo - this tail is my pride! The only proof that I am me!"
"Honestly, though..."
"What should I do?"
"I wish to eat sweetbread."
"And by sweet bread, I mean - you know. Wheat bread."
"We've got to sell our goods first, in any case."
"I suppose I'll allow that."
"Ah, but my lovely tail has been trampled 'neath your feet. 'Tis only fair that I trample upon you a bit in return,"
"Ho, is that wheat?"
"Indeed. Half as flour and the other half in grain. I've a writ of quality to go with it."
"I see. I'll allow as how kneaded and baked it would make fine bread - but as you can see, we've had a huge harvest of rye this year. We simply lack the resources to deal with extra wheat."
"Though for our part, wheat does yield a nice profit. We'd like to buy from you given the chance, but we've no spare funds on hand..."
"I gather that you're a traveling merchant - have you come to create a new trade route?"
"Nay, this is merely a side business."
"I see. May I ask your destination?"
"I'm bound for Lenos, but there's a place nearby I'd like to visit first."
"Good heavens, you're headed quite a ways... quite a ways, indeed."
"Aye, though I plan to stop in Tereo first."
"Goodness, what would take you there?"
"I've business with the Church there. Ah, and merchant matters aside, would you happen to know the way?"
"The road that leads there has no forks, so you needn't worry about losing your way. I'd say it's about half a day's travel by wagon. The road is poor, though."
"Will you be coming through Enberch on your return?"
"Unfortunately, no; I'm taking a different route."
"I see, well... unfortunately, I'm afraid we'll have to leave it at that, then,"
"I suppose 'tis true - the fastest way to sell wheat is not as flour, but as baked bread,"
"Ha-ha-ha. All us merchants think so. It's a sore spot with the town bakers!"
"Ah, so the bakers here are tough, are they?"
"Aye, and how. If anyone besides the bakers begins selling bread, they'll come running, stone rolling pins brandished high!"
"Well then - God go with us,"
"Indeed. I look forward to your future patronage."
"You didn't say anything this time,"
"That miller, he said Tereo was a half day's journey from here, yes?"
"Huh? Oh yes, he did."
"So if we leave now, we can be there by nightfall,"
"I was thinking it would be nice to rest. You're tired yourself, are you not?"
"If it's rest you need, we can rest in Tereo. If we're going, I'd prefer to go sooner."
"All right, then. But let's have a hot meal first? Surely you won't mind that."
"Need you even ask?"
"If there's a waterwheel here, we must be close."
"Whoa - whoa there! Say, are you a traveler?"
"... I suppose if you put it that way, aye, a traveler I am. And you?"
"Ha, well, as you can see, I'm a miller. So, where'd you come from? You don't look like you're from Enberch."
"As you might guess, I've a question for you,"
"How much longer will it take to make the town of Tereo?"
"The town... of Tereo?"
"If Tereo's a town, then Enberch is the royal capital! I don't know what brings you out there, but Tereo's a tiny smear of a village. Just look at this pitiful millhouse!"
"So how far, then?"
"It's just ahead. Of course, it's not like there's a grand wall surrounding the place - you could even say you're already in Tereo."
"I see. Well, thank you,"
"H-hey now, don't be in such a hurry, eh, kind traveler?"
"What business have you, then?"
"Ah, er - well... Ah! Your companion - she's quite the beauty!"
"She is a nun on pilgrimage. Will that do? Only a tax collector can block the path of a merchant, sir."
"A-a nun?"
"Understood, traveler. I won't obstruct you any further. But listen to my words - you'd best not bring a nun into Tereo."
"Oh?"
"Why might that be? We've come with business at the Church in Tereo. Surely if there's a church, there's no reason for a nun not to enter the village. Or is there no-"
"N-no, there is surely a church. But the reason... there's a bit of a fight, you see. With an unpleasant lot from the Church in Enberch."
"So, that is how it is. How should I say it...? If a nun were to arrive now, things could become complicated. That is why I'd rather you didn't go."
"I see. Well, we'll be cautious. Surely we won't be thrown out as soon as we arrive."
"Well... no, I don't suppose you will."
"My thanks to you. I'll keep your advice in mind. Suppose she's not dressed as a nun - no one would mind, then, would they?"
"That would be a boon, yes."
"But what business have you with the church?"
"We need directions."
"Directions?"
"So... so you haven't come to do business, then. You're a merchant, right?"
"Aye, and you're a miller, are you not?"
"And here I was hoping I might be of some use to you in business."
"I'll call on you if need be. Now, may I pass?"
"My name is Kraft Lawrence. What are you called?"
"Evan! I-I'm Gyoam Evan."
"Evan, then. Understood. I'll remember that."
"Please - please do!"
"Come by upon your return, if you would,"
"Hmph. The boy seemed to look at you more than he did me,"
"Well, he's a miller. His is not an easy life."
"It's no different from being a shepherd. Both are necessary jobs, but the people who toil in them are held in contempt in towns and villages."
"For example,"
"think of the wheat that's in the pouch about your neck."
"If you were to hull and grind that much wheat, how much flour do you think it would yield?"
"Suppose you have this much grain,"
"If you hull and grind it, you'd probably get about this much 26/233 flour,"
"They say that millers at the waterwheel have six fingers and that the sixth grows from the palm - for the purpose of stealing flour. Also, most waterwheels are owned by the local landlord, who levies a tax on all who grind their grain there. But the landlord can't watch over the millhouse all day, so who do you suppose collects taxes in his place?"
"I suppose it would be the miller."
"Aye, and no one is happy about paying taxes. But it is necessary. So who do you suppose bears the brunt of their resentment?"
"Ah, I see the way of it. So the reason that pup was wagging his tail with such vigor at you, rather than me, was-"
"Even so,"
"He would like nothing better than to leave this village."
"But it's a necessary task, and there are those who appreciate it,"
"towns"
"That's quite a stone there. What's it used for?"
"Probably for ceremonial use in some festival or for dancing or maybe for holding meetings, I suppose."
"Seems like they're almost disappointed,"
"Who is it?"
"I apologize for calling without notice. I am Lawrence, a traveling merchant,"
"A... merchant?"
"That's right. I've come from Kumersun."
"... What about her?"
"Circumstances have led to her traveling with me,"
"What is your business here?"
"Ah, yes - I'd like to speak to the priest, if that is at all possible."
"Though I am not a full priest, I am responsible for this church. My name is Elsa Schtingheim."
"What is your business here?"
"Ah, er, we wish to ask directions..."
"Directions?"
"Yes. We need to find a particular monastery - Diendran Abbey, under the care of Abbot Louis Lana Schtinghilt."
"I know it not,"
"I have heard that there is a priest here by the name of Franz."
"Father Franz passed away in the summer."
"Wha-?"
"Are you satisfied? I know not of the abbey you seek, and I'm very busy."
"..."
"She certainly hated you."
"Maybe it's because I didn't leave a tithe."
"Is it true that Father Franz is dead?"
"She did not seem to be lying. However-"
"She was lying when she said she didn't know of the abbey."
"What shall we do?"
"In any case, we cannot force our way in. Let us find an inn."
"Ooh... It has been so very long..."
"It certainly trumps sleeping in a wagon bed, but mind yourself - there may be bugs."
"Mind myself? Why, I'm already followed about by the largest bugs of all."
"This is a very small village. Don't cause a fuss,"
"That will depend entirely on your attitude."
"I'm tired. Might I sleep?"
"And if I say no?"
"Why, I would doze off at your side."
"Well, I suppose you really are tired, yes? If you rest now before you collapse from exhaustion, that would be a boon to your traveling companion."
"Hmph. Well, in that case, I shall take my rest."
"But first take off that cap and the robe about your waist as well and my coat that you just tossed aside there. Fold it neatly, and put a blanket on the mattress. Honestly."
"If the clothes aren't folded by the time I get back, you won't get a nice dinner."
"You're too kind to really do that."
"... You'll meet a bad end someday."
"Oh, aye, if you can bring yourself to do something about it. Never mind that - are you going out somewhere?"
"I wouldn't bother if we were just passing through, but as it seems 34/233 we'll be staying here for a bit, I'd best see the village elder. The elder might know where the abbey is as well."
"... I see."
"Quite. So you just sleep here."
"I doubt I'll find a souvenir for you, though."
"... I care not."
"So long as you return..."
"I've already got my souvenir. Good night."
"Sleep well,"
"Excuse me, is anyone home?"
"Hello - who might you be?"
"I apologize for the intrusion. My name is Kraft Lawrence; I am a traveling merchant. I've-"
"Oh, goodness. Elder, sir! The one everyone's been talking about - he's here!"
"Elder, sir!"
"See, here he is!"
"Mrs. Kemp, you're being rude to our guest."
"Please forgive our terrible manners. I am Sem, elder of the village of Tereo,"
"I'm very pleased to meet you. I am Lawrence, a traveling merchant."
"Well, now, Mrs. Kemp, do go back inside and take up with the others... Goodness, my apologies, sir. A visitor so late in the season sets all the idle goodwives' tongues wagging."
"I surely hope the rumors are good ones."
"Come, come in,"
"If you head into the inner room, you'll end up white with flour! Come, follow me,"
"Ha-ha-ha, be at ease. It is not alive."
"So, then, what business is it that brings you to our humble village?"
"Ah, yes. First, as we're staying in your village, I should offer my regards. Here is some of the wheat I have stocked,"
"Goodness gracious! Most traveling merchants these days start talking business from the first word out of their mouths."
"And what would your other goal be?"
"Ah, well. We are looking for an abbey and were hoping you would know its location."
"An abbey?"
"Yes. We inquired at the church earlier, but unfortunately they did not know it."
"I see... Unfortunately I, too, have heard of no abbey in this region. Where did you come by this information?"
"In Kumerson. A chronicler there told me."
"The chronicler in Kumersun told me that if I spoke with Father Franz, he would be able to tell me where the abbey is."
"Ah, I see... Unfortunately, this summer, Father Franz..."
"Yes, I heard."
"His loss was hard. He devoted many years to his labor for the village."
"And now Miss Elsa has taken his place?"
"Even so. She's quite young - no doubt you were surprised."
"Surprised indeed. So then-"
"Elder!"
"You seem to have another visitor. I had best take my leave. I am worried about my companion."
"Oh, goodness. I am most sorry I was unable to be of any service."
"I hope the tidings are good ones,"
"Elder, I've brought this!"
"There'd be a poor dinner unless the clothes were folded, nay?"
"You're too nice to really do that,"
"Seems I slept for some time. Aren't you hungry?"
"Even if I was, surely you know I am far too kind to wake you from slumber."
"And you didn't take the opportunity to slip some coin from my coin purse?"
"Night falls early here. It's not so late, but the square is deserted."
"And nary a stall to be found. Will we be all right for dinner?"
"We'll be fine if we go to the tavern. It's not as though this town sees no travelers at all."
"Hm. Let us hurry, then."
"I've only just woken- oh, fine. Fine!"
"What's that?"
"Oh?"
"-!"
"Don't just appear like that!"
"My, but you are a skittish one. Never mind that - what did you see?"
"Nothing important,"
"I just wondered where he was heading."
"Seems he's bound for the church."
"Quite suspicious,"
"We're the suspicious ones."
"What?"
"Oh ho, so that's how it is,"
"Only the gods may spy on others' lives,"
"... Hmph."
"Are you not interested, then?"
"Perhaps if they were secretly talking of business, I would be."
"They may well be. My keen wolf ears could listen in - what say you?"
"To think you'd be interested in such nonsense,"
"What's wrong with being interested?"
"Well, it's certainly nothing to be complimented on."
"Hmph. 'Tis not as though I am motivated by vulgar curiosity,"
"If I absolutely must give a reason, I suppose it would be to study."
"Study?"
"Indeed, study. To see how you and I must look to other people."
"Listen, you. Would you not agree that one needs an outside perspective in order to truly understand a situation? Are you listening to me?"
"So that is how I look to others when I'm with you..."
"Well, at least I know we're certainly a match for them."
"Now then,"
"I'm hungry,"
New Convo:

"Hah, that's the way to drink!"
"Another round!"
"Come now! You can't call yourself a man if you'd lose to your pretty companion!"
"Ah, this is fine ale indeed. Is there some secret to its brewing?"
"Ha-ha-ha, right there is! It's Iima Ranel, the mistress of this tavern. She's famous around here - her arms are as strong as three men, and she has the appetite of five!"
"Don't tell the travelers such lies! Aye, here you are, fried garlic mutton."
"Ouch, damn you! And here I was about to sing your praises!"
"So what you said just now wasn't praise? You got what you deserved, then!"
"The mistress here used to travel with a brewing jug over her shoulder!"
"Ha-ha, surely not,"
"Ha! No one believes the tale when they first hear it. But it's true, isn't it?"
"It surely is,"
"I was younger and prettier then. I was born west of here in a town along the coast. But it's the fate of such towns to be swept away by the sea, and one day a huge ship pulled into port, and soon the town was swallowed into the waves."
"Then I got mixed up with the crowd as it rushed away, and at some point, I noticed I was carrying a brewing jug and a sack of barley,"
"Here, one for you, too, Iima."
"Ah, my thanks. Anyway, a girl on her own wouldn't have a prayer of finding work in some strange town, and there'd been rumors of pirates striking towns three mountains away. So I just used the river water there along with my brewing jug and barley, and I started brewing ale. And who would be the ones to drink that brew but a passing duke and his men come from afar to check on the resistance against the pirates."
"Ah, in truth, I've never been so embarrassed as I was that day! And to have the duke discover that this young girl with the tangled hair and dirty face had been brewing ale in the forest - why, when I asked him about it later, he told me he'd thought I was a dryad! I suppose he had an eye for such things."
"But then, wouldn't you know it - the duke said my ale was delicious! He said that as the town they were heading to had been sacked by pirates, he and his men would be unable to get decent drink there, so he asked me to travel with his company and brew for them! "Indeed, the ambitious young maiden, Iima Ranel, thought things were finally going her way. "But alas! The duke already had a beautiful consort! "Ah, 'tis well, I thought - my beauty would be wasted on such a homely nobleman, anyway. Though I had hoped for a black marten fur coat."
"So you became his personal brewer, then?"
"Ha-ha, no, that would be impossible. At the time, I did not know the ways of the world, so it was surely my dream - but no. But as thanks for traveling with the duke and his men, I was able to dine in 49/233 his absurdly large mansion, and I was given special permission to sell ale under the duke's name, and that was boon enough. "So that's where the story of the rare ale-selling maiden begins - call it 'The Brewer Maid's Tale.'"
"So that is how I came to wander the land, brewing and selling, selling and brewing - many things happened, but for the most part, the road was easy. But then I made a single mistake-"
"Aye, Iima visited Tereo, and tragedy followed!"
"I never drank the ale I brewed, you see,"
"for I wanted to sell every drop. I'd never had a proper taste myself, but when I came to this village, I tried it for the first time, fell in love with it, and in my drunken state, stumbled right into the arms of my honorable husband!"
"And so I became the tavern keeper's wife. But this village is a good one - do take your time and enjoy yourselves,"
"Ah, but this is a fine tavern. I doubt you'll find its equal even in Endima,"
"Aye, right you are! You may be but a traveling peddler, friend, but you've got an eye for quality."
"Indeed!"
"And the ale's fine, too. Truly this village must enjoy God's blessings,"
"Ah, excuse my rudeness,"
"Ah, no - it's no fault of yours, traveler,"
"There is a big church here, after all."
"Ours is a remote village,"
"so things are a bit more complicated here. And 'tis true that we owe a great deal to the late Father Franz. But still..."
"Aye, but still! Come what may, we mustn't disobey Lord Truyeo."
"Lord Truyeo?"
"Ah, Lord Truyeo is the guardian spirit of this village. He brings us good harvests, helps our children grow up strong and healthy, and keeps evil spirits away. He's where the name Tereo comes from."
"Ah, I see,"
"A spirit of good harvest, eh? As a traveling merchant, I've heard such things. Is this Lord Truyeo a wolf spirit?"
"A wolf? Ridiculous! As though such a devil's spirit would guard a village!"
"Ah, so he is-"
"A snake, merchant! Lord Truyeo is a snake!"
"I've heard legends of snake spirits,"
"One once descended from the mountains to the sea, and the path left behind it became a great river."
"Oh, come now, you can't put Lord Truyeo beside such things! They say he's so long that the weather at his head is different from what's at his tail and that he devours the moon for breakfast and the sun for dinner."
"Aye, that's right!"
"And besides, Lord Truyeo is nothing like those old fairy tales. After all, there's a cave he dug to hibernate in not far outside of the village."
"A hole?"
"Aye. One finds caverns everywhere, but this is one cave that bats and wolves dare not approach. There's a story of a traveler that once went inside to prove his courage - he never returned. There's a curse on anyone who enters - it has long been so. Even Father Franz told us never to enter. If you'd like to see it, it's naught but a short walk from here."
"You passed through Enberch ere arriving here, did you not?"
"You saw the giant church there, then. A man named Bishop Van is in charge there, and every generation of bishop there has been a maddening presence,"
"Enberch was once much smaller than Tereo, the story goes,"
"They, too, were looked over by Lord Truyeo until one day missionaries from the Church came, and the whole village rolled over and converted without so much as a second thought. A cathedral went up in a flash, more people came, a road was laid, and soon it was a grand town. Then they started making demands of Tereo..."
"Aye,"
"And of course, they wanted us to convert as well. But thanks to the efforts of the people here two generations ago, they managed to hold off conversion by letting a church be built. But there's no comparison between their grand town and our little village. They let us continue our devotion to Truyeo, but in exchange we pay heavy taxes. Ask any of our grandfathers; they'll complain about it all day."
"So it was about thirty or forty years ago that Father Franz arrived,"
"I see,"
"But I gather that a young lady by the name of Elsa now has charge of the church."
"Ah, yes, indeed she does..."
"When we stopped to pray for safe travels, I was quite surprised to find such a young girl wearing priestly robes. Are there special circumstances surrounding her, as I can't help but assume?"
"It's strange, isn't it?"
"It was more than ten years ago that Father Franz took Miss Elsa in. She's a good girl, but as a priest? Surely not."
"If the responsibility becomes too heavy for her, would it not be possible to summon a priest from Enberch?"
"Ah, about that..."
"You're a merchant from a distant land, are you not?"
"Er, yes."
"Well, then, perhaps - well, do you know any powerful men in the Church?"
"Someone that could really stick it to that lot in Enberch-"
"Hey!"
"What are you saying to our guest? Do you want a beating from the elder?"
"I'm sorry - it must look like we're hiding something. But even a traveler - no, especially a traveler - can understand that every village has its own problems."
"When travelers come through, we'd like them to eat our food and drink our wine, and when they visit another region, to talk about how nice the village was. That's how I see it anyway."
"I quite agree,"
"Now then, you lot, your last job of the day is to drink and make merry!"
"I wish I could say the same to you, but it seems your companion has had quite enough."
"She hasn't had anything to drink in some time; I daresay she went a bit overboard."
"I'll return to the inn before she makes a spectacle of herself. At least she hasn't married anyone yet."
"Ha! She can take it from me, no good comes from a woman drinking!"
"I'll remember that,"
"You ate too much and drank too much."
"Wasn't it my job to eat and drink, leaving barely a space for chatter?"
"Of course, I'm aware of that. But you kept on ordering the most expensive stuff."
"Ah, you're a stingy male, you are. Ah, but enough of that - I need to lie down. It's hard to breathe!"
"Hey, we're nearly there. Don't fall asleep yet!"
"Ho-"
"Wh-what's wrong?"
"... Ah, you ate it?"
"Wh... what is this...?"
"The innkeeper's wife brought it after we came back to the inn last night. Apparently it's good for hangovers."
"Eating this would drag me back to sobriety after a hundred years' drinking!"
"It certainly looks like you could use its help."
"'Tis not as though I am hungover every morning."
"And thank goodness for that. It's cold again today, I should say."
"I don't mind a bit of cold, but no one in the village is yet awake."
"Surely someone is up... but I daresay shops will not be open until late."
"I surely prefer a livelier place,"
"You'll find no argument from me there."
"You know, they say the gods made us to sleep just once a day."
"Oh? Well, I'm a wolf,"
"There's nothing for it if no one has yet risen. If I must be cold and hungry, I'd rather be asleep."
"Well, we are here in the wrong season. Still, it's odd."
"Oh?"
"Ah, it's nothing you'd care about. I just can't quite figure the sources of income for the people here."
"I know where we're going today."
"Mm?"
"It's your home we're searching for, and yet why am I the one working so hard?"
"'Tis because I am that important, nay?"
"Would it kill you to spare me such talk from time to time?"
"You're such a merchant."
"Large profit requires large purchases. Nothing comes of buying small."
"Hmph. What about your small courage, eh?"
"It's harder for you to move when I am with you, is it not? This is a small village, and eyes follow us wherever we go."
"oh."
"If I could take action, I would - but all I would do is go to that impudent girl at the church and tear her throat out. Please, go and find the location of the abbey, truly. I may seem lazy, but I want nothing more than to go there and hear what the monk has to say."
"Understood,"
"I'll be back by midday at the latest,"
"Bring me a souvenir,"
"On foot, eh? Where're you headed?"
"I was thinking of having some wheat ground."
"Oh, the mill, eh? Careful you don't get cheated!"
"Ah, Master Lawrence!"
"master"
"Have you a mortar free at the moment?"
"Eh? I do, but... are you leaving already?"
"No, I'll be in Tereo for a time yet,"
"Ah, you must! Just wait a moment, then. I'll grind this into flour that will rise beautifully, you'll see."
"This is quite a mill,"
"Isn't it? It may not look like much on the outside, but I grind all the wheat in Tereo,"
"I haven't seen wheat in quite some time. We'll weigh it out later, but my guess is that the fee will be maybe three ryut,"
"That's quite cheap."
"Cheap? And here I was worried you'd find it too high."
"The villagers are a tightfisted lot when it comes to grinding. But if I don't collect in full, I'm the one to bear the elder's ire."
"That's true no matter where you go."
"Were you a miller, too, once?"
"No, but I once did work as a tax collector. It was for the butcher tax on meat. Things like how much tax they owed for slaughtering one pig, you see."
"Huh, so that is how it's done, eh?"
"Cleaning meat and bones taints the river and creates a lot of garbage, so it's taxed in order to pay for the cleanup - but of course nobody wants to pay."
"In the end, I would have to cry and beg to get people to pay. It was awful,"
"I surely understand!"
"Incidentally, you did say that all of Tereo's grain is ground here, yes?"
"Yes, it's true. There was a big harvest this year, so it's hardly my fault it took so long to grind, yet they yell at me constantly!"
"What, then - have you changed your mind since yesterday? Are you planning to do wheat business in Tereo?"
"Hm? Oh well, depending on circumstances..."
"I'd counsel you to give it up,"
"Merchants are particularly bad at giving up."
"Ha, spoken like a true merchant! But you need only go to the elder to understand. It's been decided that the village must sell all its grain to Enberch."
"Ah, is Tereo part of Enberch's fief, then?"
"We're their equals. They buy our wheat; we buy other things from them. What's more, when we buy wine or clothing from Enberch, we pay no taxes. Impressive, isn't it?"
"What I heard at the tavern was that Enberch levies heavy taxes on Tereo, though."
"That's ancient history. Want to know why?"
"I'd love to,"
"Uh, sorry. I don't know myself,"
"B-but still-"
"I know who's responsible for making it this way!"
"Father Franz, wasn't it?"
"Ah! Er - how did you know?"
"Call it merchant's intuition."
"A-amazing. You're a man to be reckoned with, Mr. Lawrence."
"Flattery will get you nowhere. Is my wheat done?"
"Oh, er - yes. Just a moment."
"Ah, yes. It will indeed be three ryut. But since there's nobody here, if you'll keep mum about it, you don't have to-"
"No, I'll pay. A miller's got to be honest, don't you think?"
"Make sure you sift it well before you make bread with it,"
"I shall. By the way-"
"Do the church services here always begin so early?"
"Hm?"
"No, hardly. It's not bad in the summer, but I'm sure you'll agree it's far too cold to sleep in the millhouse in the winter. I sleep in the church."
"Ah, I see."
"Still, you seem to be quite close to Miss Elsa."
"Hm? Ah, well, ha-ha-ha..."
"When we visited the church yesterday to ask for directions, we were treated with no small amount of disdain. She simply wouldn't listen to anything I said. Yet this morning, she seemed as kind and gentle as the Holy Mother. Quite a surprise."
"Well, Elsa's quite short-tempered for someone as timid as she is. Her shyness makes her like a wild rat when she first meets someone. If she really wants to follow in Father Franz's footsteps, she'll have to stop."
"But still,"
"it's been some time since she's been in such high spirits. I suppose your timing was bad. By yesterday evening, she was quite happy. Still... it's odd. Why didn't she mention you had visited? That girl usually tells me how many sneezes she's had that day."
"Surely it's because in the end, I'm also a man,"
"So she was worried I would get the wrong idea! That silly girl!"
"But what would've made her so cheerful after being so irritable?"
"Why do you ask?"
"My own companion's moods change more often than the mountain weather,"
"It must be quite rough going."
"It surely is."
"Sadly I don't know how much I can explain. It's simply that in Elsa's case, a persistent problem has calmed down."
"Meaning?"
"Well-"
"I was told not to talk about it to people from outside the village. If you simply must know, perhaps you might ask the elder..."
"Ah, no, if you can't talk about it, that's fine."
"Ah, but - I can say that if you go now, she'll probably talk to you. She's really not a bad person!"
"Well then,"
"I suppose I'll go talk with her again."
"I think you should."
"I'll be off, then,"
"U-um, Mr. Lawrence!"
"Hm?"
"Is... is it hard being a traveling merchant?"
"There's no job in the world that's not hard. But... yes, it's quite nice at the moment."
"I see... I guess you're right. Well, thank you!"
"Food."
"There was this much cheese left? I only restrained myself because you said it wouldn't last,"
"Who said you could eat all of it? Half of that is mine."
"Did you not make a tidy profit in the last town?"
"Did I not explain to you that we've used it all already?"
"You only need to tell me once - I understand that. What I mean is, you made money, but I received nothing."
"How can you say something so shameless after eating and drinking so much?"
"In that case, shall we do a careful comparison of the coin you made and how much I've cost?"
"You made quite a tidy sum with the rocks I bought from that bird woman, you did. Not to mention-"
"Fine, fine!"
"Why, thank you."
"You're welcome."
"Ah, so are your inquiries proceeding?"
"More or less."
"More or less? So you've found half the directions we need?"
"If I'd gone to the church, I thought I'd get the same cold shoulder we got yesterday. So I went to see Evan at the millhouse."
"Ah, going after the person whose relationship with the girl is not uncomplicated. 'Tis wiser than I'd expect from you."
"... Yes, well."
"Would you give up going to the abbey?"
"... And the reason would be?"
"There's something strange about this village. It feels dangerous to me."
"So you're not willing to risk danger to look for my home, then?"
"That's not- wait, you're doing that on purpose."
"Hmph."
"If I'm right, I think the abbey we're looking for is Tereo's church."
"I'm going to go through my reasoning point by point. Are you ready?"
"First, Elsa obviously knows where the abbey is but is pretending ignorance. If she's hiding that information, it means that for whatever reason, she can't talk about Church affairs. Also, when I went to the elder's house yesterday asking the same question, he also seemed to know - and also pretended not to."
"Next, of all the buildings in the village, only the village elder's house is grander than the church. Yet if you'll think back to the conversations in the tavern yesterday, you'll see that the Church doesn't command much respect here. The villagers worship the local snake spirit that's protected them for ages - not the God of the Church."
"Still,"
"did they not speak of Father Franz as someone who'd done the village good?"
"They did. The elder said the same thing. So it's clear that Father Franz did something to benefit the village - but it wasn't saving them by preaching the word of God, which means he did something that materially benefited them. And I found out what that was just a while ago, talking to Evan."
"Essentially, he created a contract between Tereo and Enberch that is disproportionately favorable to Tereo. That's why everybody in the village can be so idle now that the wheat harvest is over. They don't have any financial worries. And it was none other than Father Franz who made their lives what they are by negotiating a frankly unbelievably favorable contract with Enberch."
"Mm."
"So the dispute between Tereo and the Church in Enberch that Evan mentioned when we were first coming into town must be about this. Generally, internal Church disputes happen over who will take over vacated priesthood or bishop posts, trouble with the donation of lands, or arguments over religious doctrine. At first I assumed that the trouble was over Elsa - being so young and a woman - taking charge of the church. But even if that's the reason on the face of it, the true cause is something else."
"Enberch would want to destroy the relationship that currently exists between itself and Tereo. I don't know how or when Father Franz managed to execute the contract, but I'm sure that Enberch wants it as dead as Father Franz is now. The fastest way would be by sheer force of arms, but unfortunately Tereo also has a church. We can assume that the reason Enberch didn't resort to force long ago is because Tereo's church has supporters. So what to do? They need the village's church to disappear."
"The villagers here make no secret that they worship a pagan spirit. If it was to be recognized as a pagan village proper, Enberch would have the excuse it needs to attack."
"If it was so simple as knowing how to get to the abbey, there'd be no need to lie about it,"
"But if the abbey is in the village, they must hide it."
"So can we not abandon this? Given the situation, the abbey's existence would be a perfect excuse for Enberch to attack, which means the people of Tereo will continue to hide it from us. And if, as I suspect, the abbey is the church, then the monk we've been looking for is Father Franz. His knowledge of the old pagan tales may have been buried with him. There's no point in stirring up trouble when there's nothing to be gained from it."
"I am not a demon"
"What's more, this involves pagan spirits. If this goes badly, we could be branded as heretics, and we would be in real trouble."
"I understand that you want to gather information about your home, but I think there's danger here that we should avoid. As far as the location of Yoitsu goes, the information we gathered in Kumersun should be more than enough. And it's not as though you've lost your memory. We won't have to go far to-"
"Listen, you-"
"Holo, hear me out."
"So I don't misunderstand again, I want you to tell me clearly. Just what are you hoping to learn from these pagan tales?"
"Do you want to know more about the bear spirit that... er, destroyed your home?"
"Or is it... something to do with your friends?"
"And if it is, what would you do?"
"Depending on circumstances, there are some risks I will take."
"Fine, then."
"It is fine. You hardly need prepare yourself for an outburst from me."
"Hark now - given my way, I would want to slap that insolent girl in the face and make her tell me everything, given what you've said. Also, I simply wish to know all I can about Yoitsu. Would you not likewise want to hear tell of your home?"
"However, I find the idea of you risking danger for my sake a bit troubling. We have a fair notion of where Yoitsu lies, do we not?"
"Ah, yes."
"Then we need not risk this."
"Why do you suppose I do not speak of my hometown to you?"
"Now and again I remember things about my hometown, things I wish to boast of. Memories I wish to tell you. But I do not, because you are always so considerate - as you are being just now. I know that to complain that you are too kind is the height of selfishness. But it is a bit difficult for me."
"Honestly, if you were simply a more perceptive male, I would not have to say such embarrassing things."
"I'm... I'm sorry."
"Still, being softhearted is one of your few good points... It's just a bit frightening for me."
"Here I am, lonely and helpless, yet you do not leap to devour me. Truly you are a frightening male."
"One must be careful. Some fruits are more sour than they look."
"Ah, 'tis true, they can be unbearably sour. But,"
"are you saying I'm not sweet?"
"Yes, that's exactly what I'm saying."
"Oh, ho, you've some nerve."
"Some things need to be bitter to be tasty - ale, say,"
"Hmph. Children shouldn't drink liquor."
"Oh, indeed - we can't have them getting hungover."
"Will you really give this up?"
"Asking me in such a way... is hardly fair,"
"If I can learn anything about Yoitsu, my friends, or that awful bear spirit, then I want to know it. What we learned from the bird woman in Kumersun was far from enough. It was like feeling thirst yet having but a few drops of water to quench it,"
"What do you want to do?"
"Might I... ask this of you?"
"Leave it to me."
"Actually, I've got an idea."
"Oh? Do tell."
"Well, about that..."
"Are you serious?"
"We won't get anywhere being circumspect. And did I not just now ask if I could ask this of you? Did I not just ask if you would take a risk for me?"
"Still-"
"'Leave it to me,' you said. It made me very happy."
"I have to grab your reins every once in a while, after all,"
"Of course, if it doesn't go well, I'll leave things to you. So-"
"Right now I wish only to grab your hand."
"Right, then! Let us eat and go forth!"
New Convo:

"Pardon, is anyone there?"
"... What business have you?"
"My apologies for yesterday. I heard from Mr. Evan that you've been facing a difficult situation."
"... I gather you've come to ask about the abbey again?"
"No, no. As far as that goes, I've already inquired with the elder, who also said he knew nothing of it. It is possible that the information I got in Kumersun was mistaken. The source was a bit eccentric, truth be told."
"I see."
"Thus, though it be a bit earlier than we expected, we'll be moving on to the next town. As such, we've come to pray for safe travels."
"... If that is the case..."
"Come in,"
"This way, please."
"Father Franz-"
"Hm?"
"He must have been a man of great faith."
"Ah... yes, you're right. I'd... I'd never noticed until you pointed it out."
"Then let us pray. Are you prepared?"
"Ah, before we start,"
"I must give my confession."
"Er, well, in that case, there's another room-"
"No, I will give it here, before God."
"Very well,"
"Confess your sins, for God is always forgiving to those who are honest."
"I have told a lie."
"What kind of lie?"
"I have been deceptive for my own gain."
"You have confessed your sin before God. Now have you the courage to tell the truth?"
"I have."
"Though God knows all, he still wishes to hear you speak your transgressions. Do not be afraid. God is always merciful to those whose faith is good."
"I lied today."
"In what way?"
"I tricked someone using a false pretense."
"For what reason?"
"There was something I had to know, and in order to learn it, I lied to get close to the source of that knowledge."
"... To whom did you lie...?"
"To you, Miss Elsa."
"I have now confessed my lie before God, and I have told the truth."
"I am seeking Diendran Abbey, and I have come to ask you its location."
"No,"
"I have lied again. I have not come here to ask the location."
"I have come to ask whether this is Diendran Abbey."
"...!"
"Miss Elsa, this is Diendran Abbey, and Father Franz was also Louis Lana Schtinghilt. Do I not speak the truth?"
"Miss Elsa, we simply wish to know the contents of the pagan tales that Father Franz collected. It is not for business and certainly has nothing to do with Enberch."
"Am I wrong in thinking that the reason you wish to keep the fact that this is Diendran Abbey a secret is because Father Franz's collected records are here?"
"What you're worried about, Miss Elsa, is Enberch learning of Father Franz's activities, correct? All we want is to see his writings. We want to see them badly enough that we're willing to employ these upsetting methods."
"Wh-who... who are you?"
"Who are we? That is a question to which it is difficult to give a satisfying answer,"
"There is a reason, though, why we - no, why I am forcing this issue."
"... What... what reason?"
"This reason."
"They are quite real. Would you care to touch them?"
"Ugh-"
"I suppose it will be quickest to ask, after all. If they are hidden, we'll never find them,"
"You can't sniff them out?"
"Sorry!"
"So, is she yet asleep? I hardly expected her to be so frail."
"I don't know if that's it. I'm starting to wonder if her circumstances are more difficult than I'd imagined."
"... Mm."
"Are you all right?"
"Are you not going to tie me up?"
"If it seemed like you were going to call for someone, I was prepared for that. I have rope in my knapsack."
"And if I should call out now?"
"That would benefit neither you nor us,"
"What I saw..."
"I'm fine."
"What I saw was not a dream, was it?"
"'Twould be better for us if you were to think of it as such,"
"It is said that demons trick humans through dreams."
"So long as we reach our goal, we will disappear like a dream and trouble you no further. I ask you again: Will you show us the writings of Father Franz?"
"I... I still cannot be sure that you were not sent from Enberch. But if that is indeed the case... what is your goal?"
"I wish to return to my home,"
"Your home...?"
"But ages have passed since I was there. I have forgotten the way, and I know not if my old friends are well. Indeed, I cannot even be sure it still exists,"
"What would you do if you learned there might be someone who knew something of your home?"
"I am a servant of God,"
"But at the same time, I am Father Franz's successor."
"I do not believe that you have been possessed by a demon, because Father Franz always said there was no such thing."
"Please come with me. I will show you."
"Let us go,"
"Here we are,"
"holy relics"
"May God forgive us,"
"In his will, Father Franz said that the statue could be removed from the pedestal... but I have never seen it opened."
"Understood,"
"Oof!... There."
"Now... we should be able to lift the pedestal and stone free from the floor,"
"So you like to see me this way?"
"It seems like the only place to take hold of it... is the pedestal. Something like this-"
"Hng!"
"Shall we go in?"
"... I will go first,"
"Understood. The air seems a bit stale, so be careful,"
"You seem still more suspicious than I,"
"... Thank you. I apologize for the wait."
"Not at all. Are those...?"
"Letters,"
"The books within are what you seek, I believe."
"May we take them out to read them?"
"I would ask you to read them within the church."
"I shall enter, then,"
"I know it's late to be saying this, but I know that we forced you into this. I thank you and offer my apologies,"
"Yes, you did indeed force me,"
"Still... still, I think Father Franz would have been pleased."
"Eh?"
"He was fond of saying, 'The stories I collect are no mere fairy tales.'"
"This is my first time entering this cellar as well. I did not expect there to be so many books. If you plan to read them all, you may wish to make new arrangements at the inn."
"Ah, but you might call someone else while we go,"
"I serve this church. It is my intention to embrace the true faith. I would never lay such a trap,"
"Even in the sanctuary, I did not tell a lie."
"I was the one who set a trap. However, had I not done so, you would never have agreed to my request."
"I shall remember never to let my guard down around a merchant,"
"Hey- you-"
"Whew. This is certainly not something one simply wanders about with. May I read it here?"
"I do not mind, but please extinguish the candle when you are finished. This church is not wealthy, after all."
"Hmph,"
"I have heard that if a merchant wishes to rise to the kingdom of heaven, he must lighten his coin purse,"
"..."
"God's blessing be on you,"
"So what do you think? Can you read it yourself?"
"I can. I am lucky on that count. I owe it to my exemplary conduct."
"And which god is it that blesses people with luck according to their righteousness?"
"If you want to know, you'd best get me an offering."
"no."
"Are you sure you don't want to keep an eye on us? We might steal the books, you know,"
"If you planned to do that, there would be no reason not to tie me up,"
"And if you were from Enberch, you'd already be speeding back to the town on a fast horse."
"Ah, but is that really true? There's nothing to say you wouldn't set fire to the books in the cellar. If the books were ash within the time it takes to get to Enberch and back, there'd be no proof."
"So long as you do not plan to bring calamity upon the village, I have not the slightest intention of raising a fuss. Though it's true that your companion has no business being in a church, I..."
"All we wish to do is learn more of the northlands. Your suspicion is completely understandable."
"No,"
"No... if the question is whether I feel suspicion, I admit I do. If it were possible, I wish that I could consult with someone else. But... my problem is of a larger..."
"You wish to know if my companion is truly what she claims to be?"
"There is that as well, yes..."
"And what else?"
"I cannot take your confession, but I may be able to give you some advice. However..."
"... However, you will only be able to get sincere answers on things outside of business,"
"No,"
"the question I have may well be best asked of a person like you. Might I ask you, then?"
"I cannot guarantee that any answer I give will be satisfying."
"If... if the stories collected in the books in the cellar are not false..."
"Yes...?"
"Does that mean the God we believe in is false?"
"..."
"My father - I mean, Father Franz - gathered many tales of the pagan gods of the northlands. He was suspected of heresy more than a few times, yet he was a fine priest who never once missed his daily prayers. If your companion truly is a pagan spirit, that means the God we believe in is a lie. And Father never once doubted God, not even on his deathbed."
"Is it because my faith is lacking? I know not. I have not the courage to rebuke the two of you, scriptures and holy water in hand. Whether that is a good thing or a bad thing - no, what it is at all, I do not-"
"My companion-"
"My companion, though her true form is a giant wolf, does not wish to be called a god nor worshiped as one."
"I am, as you see, nothing more than a merchant of no special birth. I know little of the teachings of God. I cannot tell you what is right and what is wrong,"
"But I do not believe that Father Franz was mistaken."
"Why... why do you believe that?"
"... That will be Elder Sem. I imagine he is here to ask about you and your companion."
"If you find yourself unable to trust me, you can get out there through an exit near the stove by the hallway. If you trust me-"
"I trust you. I don't know whether I can trust Sem."
"Then please stay in the back of the church,"
"I will explain that I've been asking you about the news from the churches of other lands. It is not really a lie..."
"I understand. I'll be happy to share my experiences,"
"Am I so very malicious, then?"
"... You're inventing cause for offense,"
"Your trepidation was plain as day; I could hear it in your footsteps."
"Merchants only read minds, not feet."
"... That was awful,"
"Still, you were quite considerate to the girl."
"Merchants must always be considerate to their customers. But that's not important. Can you hear the elder's conversation with Elsa?"
"She's acting more or less as she said she would. That Sem fellow, or whatever his name was, seems to have just been checking in on her... He's just now leaving."
"If the elder would understand our situation, this would be a lot simpler."
"Can you not persuade him yourself?"
"You overestimate me."
"You don't wish me to trust you, then?"
"As ever, time is the problem. If we dally too long here, it may snow."
"And what would be wrong with that?"
"If we were to be snowed in somewhere, would a large village or a small town be better?"
"Ah, I see. Still, we've a true mountain of books to get through. There's no telling how long it will take us."
"True, but we need only find stories that are relevant to you. If we read quickly, the two of us together should be able to make short work of it."
"Mm."
"What is it?"
"This is hardly the time to be asking me that,"
"I don't know whether you are truly that slow or... ah, 'tis well."
"the two of us together"?
"'Tis too late for you to say it now. I would only become angry."
"Did I not once say I was tired of being alone?"
"Sorry."
"Mm."
"Are you not going to help?"
"The elder has gone, but about what you were..."
"Well, then, I will return later."
"Look, you-"
"Is it so humiliating then for you to be seen holding my shoulder?"
"Though I will admit,"
"that I did wish to show off a bit."
"I would hate for you to be taken away from me,"
"You mean you would hate for your favorite toy to be taken from you."
"If that's what you think, will you then play with me?"
"Who's that?"
"It's gotten late, though... It's dark now."
"I'm hungry also."
"Quite. Shall we take a rest?"
"Let's not let Evan see your true nature. The fewer people who know the secret, the better."
"Mm. Though that girl will likely tell him all the same."
"I don't know... I don't think so."
"Oh no?"
"That girl seems troubled over something. Depending on what she decides, who can say what she will do?"
"Ah, her questions about God. I suppose that is true now that you mention it."
"Incidentally, what were you planning to tell her?"
"Well, I might have been completely mistaken anyway."
"I would hardly expect a perfect answer from you."
"The way I see it, Father Franz collected tales of the pagan gods to prove the existence of his own god."
"Oh, ho."
"Praying every day, day after day, yet never seeing so much as a hint of one's god - anyone would begin to doubt, don't you think?"
"But if he then started to look around, he would have seen that there were many, many other gods that people worship. Does that god exist? What about this other one? It's only natural that he would've started to wonder. If he could prove the existence of the gods worshiped by others, then that would mean his own God existed, too."
"Aye, but the God of the Church is a supreme being, is he not? There are no other gods before him, and he created the world - people merely borrow it - is that not what they hold?"
"It is. Which is why I believe this is truly an abbey, not a church."
"Do you know the difference between an abbey and a church?"
"An abbey is a place for prayer. A church is a place for teaching about God. Their aims are entirely separate. Abbeys are built in remote regions with no thought given to guiding people down the 112/233 correct path. The reason monks may spend their whole lives within one is that there is simply no reason to leave."
"Hm."
"So what do you think would be the first thing a monk would do if he began to doubt the existence of God?"
"Indeed - he would seek to ascertain the existence of the God he worshiped, which means our treatment depends even more upon what that girl decides to do,"
"I'm glad I didn't tell her any of this during the day. Elsa's not a nun - she's a member of the clergy."
"Well, in any case, all we can do is search the books as quickly as we can. There is still the problem with Enberch, after all."
"Mm. True, but"
"first let us eat."
"We thank God for blessing us with bread this day."
"Come, don't be so messy. Take a piece of bread, then eat it,"
"Fine, fine!"
"Anyway, Mr. Lawrence, as you were saying..."
"Er, let's see, where was I?"
"The ship had left harbor and gotten past the cape where rocks lurked beneath the waves."
"Oh yes, of course. That particular harbor was dangerous until you reached the open sea. Every merchant aboard was huddled up below deck, praying for their lives."
"Once we learned we had safely passed the cape, we all came above deck to discover there were ships all around us."
"Even though it was the sea?"
"Well, it's only natural for there to be ships in the sea,"
"It was an amazing sight. The sea was dense with vessels, all hauling in great mountains of fish."
"Wouldn't... wouldn't they run out of fish to catch?"
"Even if he's lying, nobody could be that ignorant."
"Anyone who's seen the sea there during that season will tell you about the black rivers of fish that run through the water."
"Wow... I can't really imagine it, but I guess the outside world is a big place."
"But the most surprising thing on the ship was the food,"
"Oh?"
"Yes, since there were merchants from so many different regions. There was a man from a place called Ebgod, which is near a salt lake. His bread was incredibly salty."
"I can understand making bread sweet, but his bread tasted as though it had salt sprinkled over it. It did not quite agree with my palate."
"Salt, eh? He must have been a rich man to put salt upon bread!"
"Yes, but Ebgod has a salt lake. Imagine a salt river running through town and every field as far as the eye can see turned to salt. There's so much salt everywhere that the people there enjoy salty bread."
"Still, salty bread!"
"There were other strange things on the ship, too - like flat bread baked in the bottom of a bowl."
"Ha, surely not."
"Ah, but if you make bread from oats, then it will turn out flat and even, will it not?"
"Well, I suppose..."
"Would you not eat unleavened bread, then?"
"While one could hardly call oat bread delicious even as flattery, the bowl bread was quite tasty, particularly topped with beans or the like."
"Amazing,"
"Anyway, the world is a vast place with much to see,"
"My deepest thanks to you for preparing such a feast for us,"
"Not at all. It is thanks to your generous donation. This is the least I could do,"
"So, about later..."
"If you wish to read the books at night as well, I do not mind. I know your aim is the northlands, and if it starts to snow, it will make your situation difficult."
"Well, then, Mr. Lawrence - you'll have to tell me more stories later!"
"He already said he was in a hurry. And today you have to practice writing,"
"When the opportunity arises, I shall. And we'll impose upon your church's hospitality a bit longer then, thank you."
"Yes, feel free."
"Oh, that's right."
"About the question you asked me earlier."
"I will consider it on my own,"
"'Think before asking,' Father Franz used to say."
"I understand. If you want to hear the thoughts of another, please do come and ask."
"I shall, thank you."
"And what happened to you?"
"Hm?"
"That expression of yours - did a hole suddenly open in your coin purse?"
"Was I making a face?"
"Mm."
"Oh. Wait... oh."
"Perhaps the wine has gotten to you?"
"Those two certainly get along well,"
"Wh-what's wrong?"
"... Did I really say something that strange?"
"Er- well, now- look, you-"
"I, er... for the most part, I... I know well my own good points and the bad as well."
"Ah, oh."
"But... er... perhaps it is strange to say so myself, but... having lived so many years, I can laugh off most things. Of course, sometimes I cannot. You should know this quite well yourself... yes? Somehow, Holo seemed to have been forced to make a difficult decision. Lawrence drew back a bit and nodded. Holo put down the book she held, sitting cross-legged and grasping her ankles, her head low. She seemed in truly dire straits, avoiding looking at Lawrence as though it would blind her to do so. Seeing her on the verge of tears, Lawrence could not help but feel deep concern. Then she spoke. "Come now, you-"
"I... I wish that you would not sound so envious when you speak of them,"
"I, too... no, I understand. I understand, but I did not want to say it... that seen from the outside, we, too, must look quite the fools."
"I myself do not... I do not know why it is so 121/233 embarrassing. No, I should even be angry - 'those two certainly get along well,' you said so enviously, so what am I-"
"No,"
"No, I understand,"
"I think."
"No - I do understand. I do. I always have. I just didn't want to put it into words."
"I was envious, but not of their relationship itself."
"I should have made you give up searching this place."
"Those two are probably going to live together in the church. Elsa's strength and cleverness will get her through the danger, and though I feel bad saying this, Evan will never be a merchant. But... what of us?"
"I turned a profit in Kumersun. You learned more of your home. And you will probably learn still more here, and I am helping you. Of course"
"of course, I'm helping you because I want to. However..."
"However... what will you do after we reach your home?"
"I know not,"
"I'm sure you will not be satisfied with a mere glance at your home."
"There we shall say our farewells."
"No, forget it. I am sorry. There is no point in speculation,"
"I am Holo the Wisewolf,"
"I am the Wisewolf of Yoitsu."
"I am Holo, the Wisewolf of Yoitsu,"
"Have you any complaints?"
"None whatsoever,"
"I'm going to sleep for a bit. Will you read in my place?"
"I shall,"
"It is not my wish to regard the tale of the bear spirit in this book with any kind of special treatment."
"Regarding the stories in the other books - there are many which differ in time and place, but which I believe nonetheless refer to the same spirit. However, this particular spirit is the only one whose stories I have organized so thoroughly."
"Is the Pope aware of this? If I am correct, then the God we worship triumphed without a fight. If that is proof of His omnipotence, how could I possibly remain calm?"
"I do not wish to let bias cloud my view of all the tales. Yet I cannot help but wonder if the pagans of the northlands themselves did not realize the importance of the Moon-Hunting Bear. No, perhaps the very fact that I am writing this means that I am already biased. As I assembled these books, I felt strongly the existence of these spirits. If possible, I hope that one would judge not with the narrow mind of a worshiper of our God, but rather with the open heart of those whose love of God is like a zephyr in an open field. That is why I have ventured to leave this book in among all the others."
"... Rain, eh?"
"Hey, wake up."
"Mmph... what is it?"
"I have two things to tell you."
"Neither good, no doubt."
"First, I found the book with stories of the Moon-Hunting Bear."
"Did something happen?"
"That seems very likely. There is nothing less welcome than the sound of a horse's gallop at night."
"I don't know what you plan to do upon reading this, but whatever thoughts you have, I'd like you to tell me about them."
"Hmph,"
"I suppose you could've easily hidden this book. Very well. I promise."
"I'll go look outside,"
"I heard the sound of a galloping horse,"
"Any notion of what is afoot?"
"More than I'd like."
"I only know what I have been able to piece together, but judging from the papers on your desk, Enberch should not be able to strike, should they?"
"A merchant's eyes are keen indeed. But yes. I believe so myself. However-"
"If you are going to tell me that the situation would be different if I'd betrayed you, I should tie you up immediately."
"In any case, I am a traveler. If things go badly, my position becomes very dangerous. There are scores of tales of merchants who became wrapped up in local problems and lost everything."
"So long as I am here, I will not allow anything like that to happen. But please, go and close up the cellar. If there is trouble with Enberch, the village elder will certainly come here."
"And what of the reason we are here so late at night?"
"... Bring a blanket to the sanctuary."
"Agreed. My companion is a nun, after all. No argument, then?"
"Elder Sem has come out,"
"Understood."
"Take that one book with you. We'll hide it behind the altar,"
"This should be all of them,"
"Then take the hallway opposite the living room. If you continue around the corner, it should take you to the entrance behind the altar. Head in there, and take the book-"
"Still, as the village elder, I-"
"My apologies for disturbing your holy time in the church,"
"Did something... happen?"
"I hope that as someone who has traveled much, you will understand. We may cause you some inconvenience for a time. Please bear with us."
"I am a merchant who belongs to the Rowen Trade Guild. Many people in the guild's house in Kumersun are aware that I have come to this village."
"Of course, Elder Sem, so long as you are taking appropriate actions as the representative of the village, then as a traveler I will certainly abide by them."
"... I understand. But the reason I appear before you and your companion is not out of any malice, I assure you."
"What has happened?"
"Someone in Enberch has eaten the wheat of this village and died."
New Convo:

"And no one from our village has been poisoned?"
"I don't think so, Elder. Grandma Jean is sick in bed, but it's just a cold,"
"The new wheat was used only to bake bread for the harvest festival, right? So at least we know the wheat we ground before that is safe."
"Hakim said that a shoemaker ate bread made from wheat he bought from Riendott, then died. His limbs turned purple, and he suffered greatly. The Enberch Council soon found out that it was made with wheat from our village. Hakim rode back to Tereo right away, so he doesn't know what happened after that, but we can guess. The feudal lord, Duke Badon, is sure to send a messenger to ensure the return of the wheat. We can expect an official envoy from Enberch at dawn, no doubt."
"R-return the wheat... That means..."
"It means we'll have to return the money. Isn't that right, Elder Sem?"
"... Yes."
"Elder, whatever shall we do? We've used the money to buy pigs and chickens and to repair our scythes and plows!"
"That's hardly the whole of it. This year's harvest was abundant, so our tavern laid in fine food and drink. If our money went into such purchases, that means yours did as well,"
"But, Elder - that's not the only problem, is it?"
"Indeed not. Once poison wheat is mixed in with the real wheat, the whole harvest is lost. This year's harvest was great - but last year's was not."
"What shall we do? Poverty is bearable but not starvation!"
"Indeed. However, I-"
"They're the ones who mixed poison wheat in with the harvest! I asked him, and he admitted to bringing wheat in! He's here to ruin our harvest and then force us to buy his wheat!"
"Th-that must be it! He went to Evan's all alone to grind his wheat! No, Evan's in it with him, and they're trying to destroy the village!"
"Aye, it's Evan! Where did that lying miller scum go? Let's tie them up together and make them tell us which wheat they poisoned!"
"Please wait."
"This is no time for women to interrupt. Get back!"
"Excuse me?"
"Evan is in the church. We can assign blame later. What is important right now is the wheat that may be returned and the money they're sure to ask for."
"We can't pay with money we don't have! We'll have to ask them to wait until next..."
"If only it were so simple."
"Elder, what... what do you mean?"
"Enberch will surely use this as an opportunity to restore the old arrangement,"
"Surely not..."
"What are you saying, Elder? Enberch isn't allowed to do anything to this village! Father Franz has already made it so!"
"Anyway, we should never have allowed Elsa to inherit Father Franz's position! Enberch will never respect that!"
"Quite so! She spends all day in that church, never once coming out to work the fields - though she eats her share of bread, 'tis sure. Everyone knows it was thanks to Lord Truyeo's blessings that the harvest was so good this year. How could some church girl-"
"Enough!"
"What shall we do, Elder?"
"In any case, each of us must check to see how much harvest money we have yet, as well as how many provisions we've laid in for winter. Until the Enberch messenger arrives, we don't know what they'll demand. They may arrive as soon as daybreak. We should adjourn until then - each of you go now, and check as I've told you to."
"Elsa, I know this is hard but please endure."
"Iima, please go with Elsa to the church. The angriest ones may attempt to break in."
"You can count on me,"
"Mr. Lawrence,"
"Like the other villagers, I have my doubts about you. The timing is too coincidental. However, I hope you would not think me such a fool that I would immediately jump to a conclusion."
"Were I in your place, Elder Sem, I would say the same thing,"
"Both for your own safety and to prevent suspicions from growing still deeper, I'm afraid I will have to ask you to come to my house."
"Y'know, there's a locked cell somewhere in that village,"
"What do you think?"
"I should've given up on looking for the book and left the village with you,"
"It's not clear that would actually have changed anything. Let's say that we came in to ask after the abbey's location and left the same day. That would've been the day before yesterday. Then the news of Enberch's poisoned wheat reaches the village today. Obviously they would assume that someone malicious mixed the poison wheat in with the good. And who do you think they would then blame? Us,"
"There are no other groups made up of a foolish merchant and a beautiful maiden. They'd soon catch us on horseback,"
"As soon as we set foot in this village, it was inevitable that we would be suspected of poisoning the wheat. Demons bringing calamity always come from without, after all."
"And there's nothing we can say to prove our innocence."
"The circumstances are too perfect. The more I think about it, the more convinced I am that this is a move by Enberch to gain control of 140/233 Tereo. Everyone in the region must be aware of the tax dispute between the two. If Tereo's wheat suddenly turns up poisoned, Enberch is going to be the obvious suspect. Tereo has people supporting it, and those people would surely not keep silent. So Enberch needs someone else to blame. Then we just happened to show up, which gave them the perfect opportunity to execute their plan."
"Then when they hold their negotiations with the village, they'll offer the condition of delayed payment so long as the villagers find the person responsible."
"Enberch won't want to get in trouble with our trade guild, so they certainly won't have a trial to determine our guilt. They'll simply declare us guilty and execute us, promising to lower Tereo's debt so long as the villagers of Tereo keep quiet about who we were and where we came from, and that would be that."
"And you're content with that?"
"Of course not."
"If we run, they'll be certain to think it was us who poisoned the wheat, and if your face is then posted everywhere, you won't be able to do business,"
"It would be the end of my life as a merchant, yes."
"Hm. Ah, could you not seek help with the guild you're a member of?"
"Help, huh. If I could do that I... ah. Hm."
"Wait - you're here,"
"What do you mean?"
"Something good. If I was riding on your back, could we escape to another town faster than on horseback?"
"Certainly."
"This isn't long-distance trading, and in any case, the only thing faster than a horse is a ship. The net Enberch would throw out to catch us can only extend at the speed a horse can run. Which means-"
"I was thinking that if I was traveling with you in the cart, we'd never be able to contact a guild house before they caught us. But if we can make it to the guild, we can get some measure of protection. If news of a guild member using poisoned wheat to do business got around, it would be a disaster - so they'll do whatever they can to put a stop to it. "If the people trying to trap us are thinking similarly, they may give up the chase as soon as they see we've escaped. "However-"
"But after that, who do you think will be accused of being the culprit?"
"Fine then, let him ride on my back as well. He wants to see the outside world anyway, yes? I won't refuse him. If the girl's in danger, put her on as well. You are absurdly softhearted, after all - honestly, the trouble I'm put through on your account..."
"The trouble, though, is that you'll have to reveal your true form,"
"I am not so narrow-minded as to be worried about that. 'Tis true, though... Being feared does wound my fragile heart."
"Or is it simply that you wish to be the only person who knows my secret?"
"If this is what you wish to do, I do not mind."
"It's the worst-case solution, of course, but the chances of it turning out like this are very high. It would be a shame to leave behind the horse, wagon, and cargo, but there's nothing for it but to think of them as fallen into a deep valley."
"I suppose I don't mind being your new wagon."
"Oh? I'd like to see the cart horse that holds its own reins."
"Might I have a word with you?"
"Yes, we were just hoping to speak to you,"
"Well, if you'll excuse me,"
"Please close the door,"
"Well, then,"
"Who exactly are you two, then?"
"We are nobody of note, I should say. I have already told you who I am."
"Yes, you have indeed told me who you are. Though I have not yet confirmed it, I do believe you."
"You were asking after Diendran Abbey. What business do you have there?"
"A person I met in Kumersun told me of the abbot of Diendran Abbey. To be precise, she did not tell me but rather my companion."
"Did you not come here on the orders of Enberch? If you did, how much - how much did they pay you?"
"We did come through Enberch, but it was only one stop on our travels. It is for our own goals that we sought out Diendran Abbey."
"Enough lies!"
"We have nothing to do with the dispute between Enberch and Tereo. I only understood the problem by putting together things I heard at your tavern, things I learned by talking to Evan and Miss Elsa, and my own experience,"
"A-are... are you truly not from Enberch?"
"We are truly not."
"If that is true..."
"If that is true... might you lend us your wisdom... and your money?"
"I can lend you my wisdom. However-"
"I would not ask you to provide it free of charge,"
"In exchange, I will guarantee your safety,"
"Is that a threat?"
"The reason I did not simply have you bound on the spot was because you first came to greet me with wheat,"
"I suppose I have no choice but to agree."
"..."
"However"
"should I succeed in turning the situation around, I will ask for appropriate compensation."
"Very well. Tell me all the details,"
"Properly speaking, Enberch will want to purchase wheat from next year's harvest to make up for whatever they're left owing now."
"... Which means?"
"It means that they'll set a price now for the purchase of all the wheat from your fields next year."
"I-if that is possible, then we would have a reprieve, for the nonce-"
"But the buying party has the advantage. As they are paying for something that does not yet exist, it is only favorable to them if they're given a significant discount. And once the price is agreed upon, no matter how large the harvest, you must still sell it all at that price."
"B-but that's absurd."
"So even if next year's harvest is as abundant as this year's, your income will drop so you will have to speculatively sell wheat from the following year to make up the difference, which means your third year's income will be even lower. They may even take advantage of your weakness to cancel the deal in case of a poor harvest. I'm sure you understand what would happen after that."
"I always thought that all would be well so long as we avoided taxation... That is why I tried so hard to guard what Father Franz left us."
"You were not mistaken. However, the villagers did not understand how great the gift of Father Franz's legacy was."
"I see... I know it is too late for such talk, but when Father Franz first arrived, he asked to stay at the church in exchange for his improving relations with Enberch. Though we had a church in our village, we could not abandon our faith in the ancient guardian of the land, Lord Truyeo. Father Franz claimed not to care about that, and he was never involved in any proselytizing. He simply lived in the church."
"I can't believe it has come to this,"
"Elder Sem, surely you saw the potential for this to happen, did you not?"
"I suppose... I did. But to think that Khepas liquor would turn up..."
"Khepas liquor?"
"Ah, yes, that is what we call the poison wheat. It is made from rye, and we all know of it - I cannot imagine that any from the village would be so careless as to mix it with wheat at sufficient purity to kill a man."
"So it will be assumed that someone did it intentionally,"
"The villagers will blame the traveler since outsiders are always the subject of suspicion,"
"And after that, Evan the miller."
"I spoke with Elsa a moment ago, and she believes Enberch to be responsible. I am pathetic. I believed that so long as we could raise wheat and sell it easily, we would have peace. I thought of nothing else."
"When the messenger from Enberch arrives, it will be clear whether this is all their doing or not. If possible, I would like to speak to Elsa before then,"
"Understood."
"This man will take you to her."
"Embarrassingly this has taken... a toll on this old body of mine. Please tell me what you learn later."
"Well, that's certainly unpleasant,"
"Iima - the elder sent us."
"The elder sent you, then? What is it?"
"I need to speak with Miss Elsa."
"With Elsa?"
"Sem guaranteed my safety in exchange for my wisdom and coin. But to make that wisdom and coin as effective as possible, I need accurate information. I believe Miss Elsa has a better understanding of the situation than Sem does."
"She's in there; follow me,"
"Elsa is here, correct?"
"Ah, yes, but-"
"The elder's already given permission. Elsa! Elsa!"
"What is it?"
"You've got guests."
"Huh? Oh-"
"We've come to speak with you,"
"Very well, come in-"
"Elsa."
"Is it really all right?"
"We cannot depend upon them, but we can trust them,"
"After all, they do at least know how to pray."
"Fine. Evan, boy - you protect her, you hear?"
"I apologize for the interruption,"
"You wait outside."
"What? Why?"
"Please."
"Any merchant would weep if he lost his coin purse. I'm leaving it with you. Think of it as proof that you can trust me."
"I'll leave it in your care, then,"
"Quite an excellent performance. If Enberch was as skilled as you, we would have no choice but to surrender,"
"Do you doubt us?"
"If you were from Enberch, then it would be Church elders coming to the village, not a wagon loaded with wheat."
"Besides, it's even harder to believe you came here to poison the wheat than it is to believe you've come in search of heresy."
"By which you mean...?"
"Hmph. While Elder Sem still doubts you, all this... all this is clearly Enberch's doing. I just never imagined it would come to this."
"Father Franz passed away this past summer, correct? It's hard to have poison wheat ready in a mere six months. Anywhere you go, 154/233 Ridelius' Hellfire - er, I mean Khepas liquor - is hidden and disposed of as soon as it appears,"
"The village's financial state is hopeless. I would very much like to ask for aid from my supporters, but they are all of them only supporting me because of my father's legacy. It is all I can do to convince them to continue that support. If I ask for more, I risk losing what I have,"
"... Undoubtedly."
"So, Miss Elsa - what do you think will become of us now?"
"Are you asking me?"
"The ones who can best tell me how Enberch's play will end are you and Iima."
"As well as the two of you, don't you agree?"
"Let me rest until then."
"We are planning to escape,"
"I believe the time for escape has long passed."
"Do you think Enberch already has the road under watch?"
"That may well be. If they have indeed planned all of this, then they would need you two as well."
"The village's suspicion is aimed at you and Evan. It will be difficult to defend yourselves. Yet if you run, it will be the same as admitting your guilt,"
"Regardless, even if the two of you managed to escape on horseback, you might not even make it past the villagers."
"If my companion were merely the maiden she looks to be, that would be true."
"Speaking in terms of outcomes, we can escape. We can escape whenever we wish,"
"Then... why aren't you?"
"First, we have not yet read through all the books in the cellar. Also, if we run, who do you think would be next in line to receive the villagers' ire?"
"I do not know how you plan to escape, but do you have confidence that you can take Evan with you?"
"Not only him, but you as well."
"Ridiculous,"
"I will neither impede nor encourage your escape. As a villager, I cannot allow you to run as you are still the most suspicious party. But as a follower of the Church, I cannot allow you to be unjustly condemned and would hope for your successful flight."
"In any case, regarding your first point, I have no reason to refuse you at this late hour. I would like to let you finish reading the books..."
"At this point, there's but a single volume we'd like to see."
"'Tis directly behind the altar. I'd like to read just that book... given the situation. I will not ask for more."
"Wh-whoa!"
"Eavesdropping brings punishment,"
"Er, no, I didn't mean to-"
"Honestly. It matters not either way. There is a book hidden behind the altar. Go fetch it, please."
"If we could escape,"
"I will not try to stop you from escaping. However"
"until you do, would you lend us your wisdom? There are none in this village who know well the ways of coin."
"I will, though I cannot guarantee that you will find my answers satisfying."
"It seems you merchants quite enjoy that line."
"We are a careful lot,"
"I've brought the book."
"But... isn't this one of the books of pagan legends? Why do you need it?"
"When one gets old, the ancient tales get more interesting."
"Huh?"
"No matter how good your eyes are, you can't read in the dark."
"Listen, you,"
"If I destroy this book in anger, will you make amends?"
"I don't mind paying for it, but don't tear pages out to dry your eyes."
"You'd happily buy my tears at a high price, though. 'Twould be a shame not to cry them."
"There are many counterfeit gems in the world. I'd hate to purchase a fake."
"Will you leave me alone for a while to read?"
"I shall. But tell me your thoughts when you're finished."
"Oh, Mr. Lawrence, aren't you going to stay with her?"
"Ah, if it would be better for me to be elsewhere, I can go."
"Well, then, how can my knowledge and experience help you?"
"I heard from Elder Sem earlier that if all the wheat is returned, we will be short seventy limar."
"Even if they collect everything I own, it would be like scattering water on a hot cooking stone. If Enberch is the buyer, they'll beat the price down as low as they can. All the wheat in my cart would barely go for two hundred silver at best,"
"That's not all we lack. We can't very well eat the seed grain that's been stored in the granary, so we'll need to come up with funds to purchase more to eat..."
"Could we not test the returned wheat for poison by feeding small amounts of it to, say, dogs?"
"Khepas liquor is invisible, and even if you took a handful of safe wheat from a sack, the wheat directly beneath it might well be poisoned."
"It is not hard to see that this is all Enberch's doing. And yet we cannot expose them - why? Why is it that the first one to tell a lie receives all the trust?"
"Bemoaning our fate will get us nowhere,"
"True. I can't very well cry now, my father... Father Franz, he would... would..."
"Elsa!"
"I'll fetch Iima,"
"Miss Elsa has collapsed."
"Again? Anemia, right? She pushes herself too far, that girl."
"Hey, Mr. Lawrence?"
"Hm?"
"What's... what's going to become of us?"
"Elsa keeps saying it can't be, but the villagers - they all suspect you and me, don't they?"
"That's right,"
"I knew it..."
"Still-"
"Was what you said before true?"
"Which part?"
"I didn't mean to eavesdrop, but... the part about being able to escape."
"Oh yes. Yes, we can escape."
"With Elsa as well?"
"Yes."
"If my companion and I escape alone, the blame will fall upon you and Elsa. It is thus my own selfish wish that if there is to be an escape, I would want to bring both of you with me."
"That's not selfish at all! I don't want to die here. I don't want to let Elsa die here. If you'll help us, I want to run. Even Elsa, I'm sure she-"
"I'm sure she wants to get out of this village. The villagers claim to owe Father Franz a great debt, but they never show a bit of gratitude. They never listened to his teachings, and even when they offered huge sacrifices to the old god of the village, they wouldn't give so much as a loaf of bread to the church. If it hadn't been for Elder Sem and Mrs. Iima, we'd have starved to death long ago."
"The outside world isn't great, either,"
"But it's a lot better than this place. I don't know how many times I've tried to tell her."
"You've some experience with the traveling life, don't you?"
"I surely do. You heard my tales at the tavern, didn't you? I don't think a person needs to stay in the same town or village her whole life. 163/233 The villagers' attitude changed just like that as soon as Father Franz's health failed, but that girl's so stubborn. She would've wanted to leave long ago, Evan, even without you telling her to."
"But what's going on now... it's a disaster for the village. I'm just as scared about our future as anyone else. But I have to admit that it would be a good chance for this misfit church to finally wash its hands of Tereo."
"wash its hands"
"So, if you... er..."
"Lawrence. Kraft Lawrence."
"Ah, yes, Mr. Lawrence. If you have some way of escaping with them, I think you should. No - I want you to. This place is my home, after all. I don't want it to have the reputation that would come from putting innocent people to death. It would be too sad."
"I suppose we'll need to persuade Elsa."
"I expect everyone will stay quiet until Enberch's messenger arrives. It would be best to make your preparations and leave by then if you're leaving,"
"There's all this talk of leaving, but exactly how do you plan on escaping?"
"If one can enter a forest and chance upon a maiden who brews delicious ale, then surely there are other equally mysterious beings in the world?"
"Don't tell me you've met a fairy."
"Ha! Do such things truly happen, I wonder."
"No doubt the duke who discovered you felt the same way."
"I certainly heard such stories on my travels, but to think... I gather you speak of your companion?"
"I cannot very well lie in a church."
"Quite so. Well, I am but the mistress of the tavern and may as well be drunk the whole year long. All I wish is for this village to be a good one. I'm sorry for holding you up."
"Not at all."
"I've heard tell that to capture a luck fairy in a bottle, you need to use liquor brewed from nectar. It's liquor that lured me to this village as well."
"I'll make sure to use wine next time I'm in trouble,"
"Fool. As though I would be taken in by mere drink."
"So are you finished talking?"
"More or less."
"Mm. Well, for my part I've reached my goal. All I need to do now is keep you safe."
"Half and half, I'd say,"
"Half and half?"
"Half of me wishes I hadn't read it, and the other half is glad I did."
"moon hunter."
"Perhaps it is just my imagination, but I feel as though someone is looking at me in a truly infuriating way."
"No, no, I'm not... No, I suppose I am. I am sorry. Don't be so angry."
"Hmph. I am satisfied knowing my friends are safe. That is all there is."
"So ask me no further,"
"That is indeed good news, but we still have no more information about Yoitsu's location."
"The world does not go as one would wish,"
"Quite."
"So what of those in this village for which the world goes not as they would wish? If you would escape, do decide quickly. It would be best to leave in the dark of night."
"Elsa and I are of one mind on our fates should we remain. We'll need to make sure we're correct, but in that case, I think discretion will be the better part of valor."
"A poor idea is worse than none,"
"Still, if it comes to that, you stand to take quite a loss."
"It can't be helped. It's not as though we can bring the wheat with us."
"Still, you don't seem too upset about it."
"Don't I?"
"Still, even with things as they are, there are some expensive things we can probably save,"
"The pepper, right?"
"There's a high-value product even lighter than spices that we can bring with us."
"Oh?"
"It's trust."
"I'll wait to sell off your trust in me until it's a bit more valuable."
"Do you have any idea just how paranoid I've become since being teased so mercilessly by you?"
"I suppose I will have to make it up to you."
"This is exactly the sort of thing I've learned to be suspicious of."
"Lies will only lower the value of your trust."
"Still, you've never once blamed me for this trouble we're in, and for that I am properly grateful."
"Huh?"
"If I had not insisted upon coming here, you would not be suffering this loss."
"Well, what say you moderate your eating and drinking for a while to make up for the loss, hm?"
"You've certainly become less restrained."
"Feel free to take the reins and-"
"I have a bad feeling about this,"
"Bad feelings are usually correct,"
"No, not this way!"
"To the back of the church - go!"
"But-"
"They're babbling on about if they hand you over to Enberch, Enberch will forgive all this! They were never planning to do anything themselves. Even wheat just grows up out of the ground on its own - they're happy to harvest it so long as it's convenient. So long as things are easy, they'll do anything to keep it that way!"
"I'll go and persuade them to-"
"Don't be ridiculous,"
"But-!"
"You going out to face them would be like throwing fuel on a fire. You think you've done a good job hiding it, but everyone knows you and Evan are close. In the worst case, they would call you a heretic just to be able to turn you over to Enberch."
"Listen well, now. You can't stay here. Look at these two strange travelers, and you'll understand - the world is vast. The villagers cannot comprehend it. You should at least try to begin your new life with companions you can trust,"
"No matter the journey, when you come to a fork in the road, you must decide in an instant which path to take,"
"You're quite right,"
"I want to run."
"Leave it to me,"
"I have one condition,"
"Think of everything that happens from now 'til dawn as a dream."
"What am I but a fairy that brews ale in the forest? Drunkards remember nothing,"
"Then leave this all to me. Now, if the lot outside have spears, I can jump past them easily enough, but they could still trouble you."
"Does the church have a back door?"
"Perhaps - Father Franz told me about the cellar only once, but when he did, he said there was an underground passage accessible from its rear."
"Well, let's use that,"
"Things should be all right for a bit longer. They haven't decided exactly what they want to do out there yet."
"We'll go down to the basement, then,"
"We're relying on you,"
"You've got it easy,"
"At least you can do a bit of preparation before you leave."
"Indeed,"
"It is not as though your home will have disappeared tomorrow. Be glad it will still exist."
"Oh, ho, Miss Fairy has lost her home as well?"
"Don't lump me in with those weaklings."
"We'll make ready right way,"
"Do you have traveling money?"
"Evan,"
"This should be enough for the four of us, provided we're frugal,"
"Good. Right, off with you!"
"Even I cannot match her presence."
"Worry not - this is the only form I can assume,"
"It's a shame. I prefer a more generous figure."
"Just open the cellar."
New Convo:

"The passage?"
"I've found it,"
"It's blocked by a wall."
"Shall we?"
"We are close,"
"Th-this is-"
"Ha! Oh, this is great,"
"Mr. Lawrence, do you know what that hole is?"
"Not really."
"It's the burrow that Lord Truyeo used when he came from the far north to hibernate long, long ago."
"Every year for sowing and harvest, the villagers come here to give prayers and celebrate. We don't usually participate, but... why would the church passageway lead here?"
"I don't know why, but it's certainly clever. The villagers would never dare to enter,"
"Come, staying here is like asking them to find us! Let us first head down to the brook,"
"Is this den real?"
"There was a great snake here. As to how long ago, that even I cannot tell."
"It just happened to make a burrow here, and yet people continuously come to worship. I doubt it has ever been able to get a proper nap."
"That's not the kind of thing a merchant who superstitiously follows the paths of the saints wants to hear."
"'Tis hardly my fault humans are such queer creatures that they must find something to worship."
"Do you not wish to worship me?"
"Let us go,"
"So, how do we escape?"
"We'll need to first make for Enberch."
"Huh?"
"We've been there once before. We'll need some sense of the lay of the land if we're to escape undetected."
"Oh, I see."
"Let me just say this,"
"If you cower in fear, I'll devour the both of you."
"Both of you! Turn around and look the other way! And you-"
"Right,"
"Truly, why is the human form so weak against cold?"
"It makes me chilly just looking at you,"
"Hmph."
"Do you want words of praise now?"
"My fur truly is the finest."
"If you ever wish to sell it, just say the word,"
"Hmph. Well, I cannot say my expectations were high. Come, climb upon me. 'Twill be bothersome if we're discovered."
"This is naught but a dream before daybreak, remember?"
"So Father Franz wasn't lying,"
"Come, let's get on,"
"If you should fall, I will pick you up with my mouth. Be prepared."
"Let us be off, then."
"... How far have we come?"
"Halfway."
"So is this a break, or-"
"Our flight would be for naught if you die on the way. We've come far enough that it would take a horse some time to catch up. We'll rest awhile."
"Don't sleep on top of me. Climb down."
"I suddenly feel like a mother."
"What is it?"
"So it's safe to look, eh?"
"How is she?"
"Are they from Enberch?"
"Must be."
"Huh."
"Is Miss Elsa truly well?"
"Hard to say,"
"Her complexion is well enough, but she seems to be thinking something over."
"Thinking?"
"It's a sizable group,"
"They're probably returning all of the wheat purchased from Tereo. And those long sticks the men around the wagons are holding - spears surely."
"Say, Mr. Lawrence-"
"Mm?"
"Could we not ask your... um... the goddess that carried us here?"
"Ask her what?"
"To... to kill them all."
"Suppose she did agree to such a request. It would certainly be done. But then Enberch would simply send an army to Tereo. And we can't fight every army they could send."
"I suppose."
"So what shall we do next?"
"I am planning to make for a town named Kumersun first. If we can make it there, our lives will no longer be in danger. After that, well - we'll figure that out once we're there."
"I see..."
"You should think about what you want to do. We've a connection, you and I - I'll do what I can to help,"
"Thank you."
"So that's how it is,"
"Let's go back,"
"We'll go a bit farther, then take breakfast,"
"Elsa?"
"Holo..."
"Are you... really a god?"
"I am Holo, the Wisewolf of Yoitsu. Long have I been called a god,"
"I dwell within the wheat and can take both wolf and human form. Humans worship me as the god of the bountiful harvest, and I am able to respond to their prayers."
"Bountiful harvest? Does that... Are you then Truyeo's-"
"The answer to that question is already within you."
"Truyeo is Truyeo. You are you."
"... If that is true, then-"
"The question you would ask..."
"... It should not be asked of me,"
"I am Father Franz's successor. That much I can say for certain."
"Oh, indeed?"
"I'm returning to the village."
"Wha-"
"I am sorry, Mr. Lawrence."
"What's the point in going back to the village?! Even if you do, it's already too late for-"
"And yet I must."
"Why?!"
"I am responsible for the church. I cannot abandon the villagers."
"Evan - be a fine merchant, will you?"
"Mr. L-Lawrence."
"It seems she wants you to be a fine merchant."
"...!"
"A merchant must be able to logically weigh gain against loss. Can you do that?"
"No matter how stout of heart she may be, no matter how firm her resolve, that doesn't mean she is never uncertain."
"Merchants must weigh gain against loss. You want to be a merchant, do you not?"
"So, what shall we-"
"Was I wrong?"
"Was I wrong?"
"Who... who can judge such a thing?"
"I cannot. Still, I... I..."
"If you fight for your home, even against hopeless odds..."
"... At least you'll have no regrets."
"My claws can crush boulders. I can defeat any number of humans."
"As I well know."
"None in Yoitsu can best me. Not human, wolf, deer, or boar."
"What of a bear?"
"Could I have matched the Moon-Hunting Bear?"
"Surely not."
"At least it would have been a great battle. At least the tale of Yoitsu could've amounted to three pages in Father Franz's books."
"I don't know whether that is true. Still, this is all hypothetical. Am I wrong?"
"... You are not,"
"If shortly after you left Yoitsu, you had heard that the Moon-Hunting Bear was coming, I've no doubt you would have rushed back. But that is not what happened. We don't know how much time passed between when you left and disaster came to Yoitsu, but in any case it happened while you could not have known of it."
"I cannot abandon the villagers,"
"The fact that you're not crying shows that you yourself understand how foolish it is to feel this way."
"I-!"
"I know that,"
"What excuse were you going to give Elsa and Evan if they'd returned?"
"What do you mean, what excuse?"
"For killing me."
"Were I a human female, you'd have no cause to complain if I killed you."
"I'd have no ability to complain, being dead."
"What do you wish to do?"
"That's what I should ask you."
"Just you wait,"
"Can we not do something for them?"
"Yoitsu can no longer be saved, but this village might yet be."
"I'm a simple traveling merchant."
"I am not a simple wolf."
"The problem is the poison wheat, yes? If it's mixed in with the good wheat, I can still tell the difference."
"I've thought of that. I don't think that can help us."
"So there is no way to make them believe, then."
"Short of a miracle, I don't think so."
"Short of a miracle..."
"What is it?"
"That's right... a miracle..."
"Mm."
"What do you think is the single best way for the Church to increase its followers?"
"Producing a miracle?"
"Quite. But a miracle's fruit is always half-seed. They are not what they seem."
"So it would need to be something that the eye can see..."
"Indeed. You - give me my wheat."
"Then reach out and fetch it for me."
"Here,"
"Mm. Now watch closely."
"Wha-!"
"That is about as far as it goes, and I cannot do many at once. Also"
"as you can see, this miracle, too, has seeds within it."
"If I were to laugh, it would hardly sound natural."
"Well? This is all I can do that is visible to the eye. Well, this and assuming my wolf form."
"No, this will be quite enough,"
"All that remains is to see if Elsa will accept this trick. Also-"
"Is there more?"
"Still..."
"Then it will be time to show my skill as a merchant."
"Right. Let us return,"
"Hmph. And here sit I, freezing my tail off."
"You seem disappointed,"
"You seem happy."
"I still believe in my God - the God who is supreme among gods and creator of all,"
"Now we must determine just how we will show this to the villagers."
"Have you any ideas?"
"No matter the product, purchasing it at the source yields the greatest gain,"
"So, once the village has been cornered-?"
"Based on what we saw this morning, it looks like Bishop Van has come as well."
"Bishop Van, eh?"
"The group from Enberch brought spearmen with them - they will have no patience for any objections from Tereo. I highly doubt the negotiations will happen in a civilized fashion,"
"I do not think Elder Sem will incite the villagers to take up arms, either,"
"Not that the villagers would have courage enough to do that anyway,"
"Then we should go in after Sem has bowed to Enberch's demands,"
"The miracle will happen as I've just explained,"
"Evan, will you be all right?"
"Why, it's nothing - if I should eat the poisoned wheat, you have but to kill me before I die of the poison."
"I shall swallow you in a single bite. It won't hurt a bit,"
"Then once we've produced this miracle, we'll leave the financial dealings to you, Mr. Lawrence,"
"Obviously we hope they will simply take the wheat back on the spot, but yes - I'll handle it."
"May God's blessing go with us."
"They have come."
New Convo:

"Ah,"
"Is this what you meant by God's blessing?"
"Is there anyone inside?"
"Nay. It's deserted,"
"Right, now... Yes, we'll need a sickle and a chalice,"
"If everything goes well, you'll have all the time you want to read."
"So... how does it look outside?"
"The window wasn't broken fortunately. We'll be able to see clearly."
"Mr. Lawrence,"
"Good. Now we just wait for the right moment."
"Can you hear what they're saying?"
"They are demanding money,"
"Mm. The man Sem has stopped resisting. He is beginning to yield."
"Who's that?"
"That's the baker. He speaks ill of me the most."
"I suppose Father Franz was just too good,"
"They are finished. A final decision has been given,"
"If you but burn this abomination and embrace the true faith, all shall be resolved. If not, Tereo will be guilty of heresy,"
"Humans - always depending on others in times of need,"
"Still, I have depended on humans in my time. Shall we?"
"As a servant of righteousness, I cannot abandon the village,"
"Let's go."
"Elsa!"
"Elsa, why-"
"I'm sorry, Mrs. Iima."
"Goodness, what have we here? None other than Miss Elsa, the successor to Father Franz!"
"It has been some time, Bishop Van,"
"I was led to believe that you had snuck out of Tereo. Was the weight of your sin too much for your conscience to bear?"
"God is always forgiving."
"We, the Enberch Church of St. Rio, believe and declare that the village of Tereo has prayed to pagan deities and has moreover added the liquor of Khepas to their wheat in order to harm the believers of the one true faith. While believers of the one true faith suffer and die, not a single citizen of Tereo has fallen ill. As they eat of the same wheat, 210/233 this can be nothing but proof that the village is protected by the evil deities they worship."
"As stipulated in the contract signed with Father Franz, we will first return this wheat. Moreover, we shall reestablish a righteous holy church. As for the false servant of God, who wears the skin of a lamb but underneath is a lying serpent, she shall face the judgment of the most high God."
"That will not be necessary,"
"It is true that my faith has at times been misplaced. But almighty God has shown me the true path. I have met one of His divine messengers!"
"That you would claim so readily to have encountered a divine messenger is merely proof of your heresy! If I am wrong, then bring the proof before me!"
"If you have doubts, let us show you!"
"Let them through!"
"Worship of Truyeo the serpent god is indeed a mistake,"
"However, that mistake is not itself a fundamental one."
"It is my belief that Truyeo itself is one of God's miracles."
"The words of men do not keep close company with the truth. Can you prove that your words were not whispered into your ears by a demon?"
"The divine messenger has promised to reveal a sign that will guide the wayward lambs back to the true path."
"Hmph, you would presume to display the power of God..."
"Th-the wheat, it's-!"
"It's God! God has created a miracle!"
"God has shown us the correct path,"
"This... can't be... It's absurd...!"
"Bishop Van,"
"I would like you to confirm that this is not the work of a demon."
"H-how-"
"Use this,"
"Please bless this chalice. Once you have done so, Evan the miller will prove the truth of God's teachings."
"Wh-what exactly do you plan to do with this?"
"Even the poor may be baptized in God. I would have you, Bishop Van, cleanse this cup."
"Take the water now to the miller there,"
"Watch closely,"
"This is the truth of the miracle that God's messenger has revealed to us."
"If this is a false miracle, then surely you will be able to demonstrate a true one."
"Bishop Van."
"V-very well. This... this is a miracle. A true miracle."
"And the church of this village?"
"It's... legitimate,"
"A legitimate church."
"I'll ask you to put that in writing,"
"What say you? Impressive, no?"
"You seem quite envious."
"Aye, quite envious."
"Envious because I was behind the scenes the whole time. Elsa and Evan were onstage. You sprung the trap."
"Still, the issue of coin has not yet been settled. That job falls to you, does it not?"
"It does. Although..."
"Indeed. I suppose this might be worth trying,"
"What's wrong?"
"Heh... are you sure you are not a wolf yourself?"
"Huh?"
"That face might suit you a bit better."
"..."
"They may go with Sem to settle matters of religion, but you, Mr. Riendott - you have matters of coin to attend to,"
"ah"
"It seems he is willing to leave everything to you."
"Well then, Mr. Riendott."
"Er, yes!"
"I have been asked by Miss Elsa and the village elder to conduct all financial negotiations. I would first ask whether every villager here can accept those terms."
"If the village elder says so, I don't see that we have a choice,"
"We've always left everything to do with coin to the elder."
"There it is, then. I shall begin with the greatest demand. I would have you keep the wheat."
"Th-that's preposterous! I couldn't possibly!"
"Why is that?"
"Th-the reputation of the wheat! After all, a man has died! My shop's reputation has been damaged!"
"And besides - besides!"
"It's written in the contract with Father Franz that any wheat touched by Khepas liquor will be returned!"
"Very well, then. Suppose we accept the returned wheat. What would the price be?"
"T-two hundred lim-"
"That's absurd!"
"That's the price you paid us originally, you bastard!"
"F-f-fine then... O-one hundred ninety-"
"Mr. Riendott, if another miracle was to happen, that would be quite disadvantageous for you, would it not?"
"O-one h-hundred... six... ty..."
"In that case, let us settle the return at that amount. Let all present bear witness."
"Incidentally Mr. Riendott,"
"Y-yes?"
"Regarding this returned wheat - I presume it would not be possible to persuade you to repurchase it."
"Understood. However, according to Elder Sem, the village does not have enough cash to buy back the wheat. Even at one hundred sixty limar, there is still not enough."
"Thus I have a proposal for you,"
"Wh-what do you...?"
"It is but a simple thing. I would ask that you persuade the bishop to allow the village to sell wheat under his name."
"I-if you plan to sell to another wheat broker... you had best give up as-"
"Why?!"
"It's been a good harvest this year... There's a surplus of rye. No matter where you look, no town can possibly buy the amount this village is looking to sell. To preserve trust, we've already bought all we could..."
"No, even if that's true, it will not matter,"
"So, will you do us this favor?"
"I-I s-suppose that would be a-acceptable..."
"One more thing."
"Wha-"
"It is possible that the people of Enberch may try to cause trouble with the business I am planning. I would ask that you be our ally in such a case."
"Ah - surely you don't plan to make bread!"
"Close, but no. The bakers would never allow such a thing, would they?"
"Also, regarding payment, it will have to wait until the business is moving along well,"
"What- what are you-"
"I certainly won't force anything upon you. I'll even add a condition you may well find attractive."
"What would you say to dissolving Father Franz's contract - the contract that requires Enberch to unconditionally purchase Tereo's wheat?"
"Hey, you can't do that just because you're negotiating for us!"
"Ah, but so long as this condition remains, it will be a source of resentment on Enberch's part, is that not so?"
"This was never a normal contract to begin with. Normally a village has one of its citizens who's good with money take charge of such things - that's business,"
"What say you, Mr. Riendott? Will you agree?"
"Hey! You can't just-!"
"If Mr. Riendott and Bishop Van are on our side, I can tell you a way for this village to create a business that will turn wonderful profits,"
"What-what kind of business...?"
"I suppose I'll tell you. You'll need some cooperation from the baker."
"Then can you make ready some eggs and butter? And honey if you have it."
"It sounds like something rather tasty shall come from all this."
"Well then, it's about time to be off,"
"You know we have piles of those things in the cart. If this is like when you bought so many apples we could hardly eat them all, you'll have naught but cookies for every meal,"
"Uh, just who was it, I wonder, that separated the good wheat from the bad and created that miracle? Had I not been there, you would've been tossed naked into a cauldron and boiled alive."
"Mmph,"
"We surely met with calamity this time around."
"Well, at least we turned a profit in the end."
"Is that all you care about?"
"For my part, I cannot say that my hopes were met, but I did well enough. I suppose it was worth the effort."
"So, where are we going next?"
"Lenos. There's a legend there in which you personally appear."
"Mm. I suppose it would be a bother to get caught in snow because we dragged our feet. We'd best get on with it."
"Shall we?"
"Quite."
"Sorry we doubted you"
"May God's blessing go with you,"
"Mr. Lawrence,"
"Thank you for teaching me so much. I'll work hard here."
"A traveler does not leave regret behind in a village, but good memories. Farewell!"
"Hm?"
"Summer,"
"Don't look at me so desirously,"
"I've had plenty, thanks,"
"Your face says otherwise."
"What?"
"Nothing,"
"Hey."
"Mm?"
"There's some business where there's good money to be made,"
"Oh?"
"It'll take us out of our way, though."
"I suppose it cannot be helped. I shall accompany you."
"So, tell me about this business,"