
New Convo:

"wisewolf,"
"wolf"
"We'll be reaching the town soon. Be careful,"
"be careful."
"... Hrm."
"Oh, so you are a religious man now, are you?"
"I'll pray to anyone who can promise me safe travels and tidy profits."
"I can promise you a fine harvest."
"You want me to pray to you, then?"
"Yes, I certainly do."
"What shall I pray for, then?"
"Whatever you like. I can provide a bountiful harvest, naturally, but safe travels are also no problem for me. I can predict the winds and rain and tell whether spring water is good or bad. And I'm just the thing for getting rid of wolves and wild dogs."
"I suppose safe travels would be worth praying for."
"They would, would they not?"
"Well, I suppose I'll ask for safe travels, then. It would be heartening to be able to avoid wolves."
"Mm. Safe travels, is it?"
"Indeed."
"What, is that all?"
"Hm?"
"I am asking you if all you require is safe travel."
"What? You wanted me to put my hands together and pray?"
"Don't be ridiculous,"
"I'm guaranteeing you safe travel - surely you don't think that a single, useless prayer is compensation enough."
"Ah, you want an offering."
"Hee-hee-hee."
"What do you want?"
"Dried mutton!"
"You gorged yourself on the stuff yesterday! It must've been a week's worth that you ate."
"I've always room for mutton."
"Cooked meat is good, too, but I simply cannot resist the texture of dried meat. If you would pray for safe travels, dried mutton is the price."
"What about that wool - is it good or bad?"
"It is quite good - so good I can almost smell the grass they ate."
"I thought as much. My pepper should fetch a good price here."
"Also, dried meat with lots of salt is good. Just a little bit of salt will not do. Also, meat from the flanks is the best, better than meat from the legs. Here now, are you listening?"
"Hm?"
"Salted meat! From the flanks!"
"You have excellent taste. That'll cost us."
"Hah, 'tis a bargain at twice the price."
"Well, now, you must have quite a bit of money indeed. If you've got so much, perhaps you should repay me."
"That approach will no longer work."
"You should've just asked nicely in the first place, then. It would've been so much more charming."
"So if I ask charmingly enough, you will buy some for me, then?"
"Of course not. You could stand to learn something from those cows and sheep - try chewing your cud, hm?"
"'Tis a tedious place,"
"You're only saying that because there's nothing to eat."
"You speak as though I think of nothing else."
"Shall we take in a sermon, then?"
"He's about five hundred years too young to be preaching to me."
"I daresay you could stand to hear a sermon on frugality."
"I'm a wolf yet. Sermons are complicated and difficult for us to understand,"
"Well, as far as the teachings of the god of frugality go, they're more persuasive here than anywhere else, I'd reckon."
"Hm?"
"Nearly all the money made here flows to the seat of the Church northwest of here, Ruvinheigen - now there's a place I've no desire to hear a sermon."
"Did you say Ruvinheigen?"
"What, do you know it?"
"Mm, I remember the name, but not as a city - it was a person's name."
"Ah, you're not wrong. It's a city now, but it was the name of a saint who led a group of crusaders against the pagans. It's an old name - you don't hear it much anymore."
"Hmph. Maybe 'tis him I'm remembering."
"Surely not."
"He was a man with flaming red hair and a great bushy beard. He'd hardly gotten a glance at my lovely ears and tail before he set his knights after me with spear and sword. I'd had enough, so I took my other form and kicked his knights around before sinking my teeth into that Ruvinheigen's backside. He was rather lean and far from tasty."
"Oh, but wait a moment-"
"Hm?"
"I only bit him, I'll have you know. I did not kill him,"
"You're considerate at the strangest of times,"
"'Tis important,"
"Anyway, this surely is a tedious city. The middle of the forest is livelier than this."
"I'll unload my pepper, pick up a new commodity, and we'll be on our way to Ruvinheigen, so just bear it until then."
"Is it a big town?"
"Bigger even than Pazzio - more properly a city than a town really. It's crowded, and there are lots of shops."
"With apples even?"
"Hard to say if they'll be fresh. With winter coming, I'd think they'd be preserved."
"... Preserved?"
"They use honey,"
"Pear preserves are good, too. Also, hmm, they're a bit rare, but I've seen preserved peaches. Now those are fine goods. They slice the peaches thin, pack them in a cask with the odd layer of almonds or figs, then fill up the spaces with honey, and seal it shut. Takes about two months for it to be ready to eat. I've only had it once, but it was so sweet the Church was considering banning the stuff... Hey, you're drooling."
"You... you're toying with me, though."
"Can't you tell if I'm lying or not?"
"I'm not lying, but there's no telling whether they'll actually have the preserves. They're mostly for rich nobles, anyway. The stuff isn't just lined up in a shop."
"But if it is?"
"... Fine, fine! I'll buy you some!"
"You have to!"
"A little, though. Just a little!"
"That's a promise, then! You've promised!"
"Okay, okay!"
"So let us hurry on, then! Hurry, now!"
"Stop grabbing me!"
"They may sell out. Should it come to that..."
"It's not a question of selling out - they may not have any at all,"
"Just understand that."
"We are talking about peaches and honey, sir! It beggars belief. Peaches and honey."
"Are you even listening to me?"
"Still, it's hard to give up pears,"
"Well, then, that went a bit long, but shall we talk business now?"
"I await your pleasure,"
"So, what goods have you brought me this day?"
"Right here,"
"Oh, pepper!"
"You know your goods,"
"It's the smell!"
"It seems I'm still a novice,"
"Just a matter of experience,"
"Still, Mr. Lawrence, you always bring the best goods at the most opportune time. By God's grace, the hay grew well this year, and the pork has gotten fat merely walking the streets. Demand for pepper will be high for a while. Had you gotten here even a week sooner, I'd have been able to take it off your hands for a pittance!"
"Right, then, let's take its measure. Have you a scale?"
"adjustment"
"No, I don't have a scale - I trust in God."
"Even if you believe in a just God, man should be able to discern whether the scripture before him is true or false. A righteous man still trespasses against God if he commits to memory false scripture, after all,"
"If you'll excuse me for a moment,"
"Shall we proceed to weigh the pepper, then?"
"Let's see, we'll need paper and ink. Wait just a moment, please,"
"What is it?"
"I'm thirsty."
"You'll have to wait,"
"Even the saints themselves needed water to live. Would you like water or perhaps wine?"
"Water, if you please,"
"Just a moment, then."
"I know this may seem like nothing to you, but to us merchants this is a battleground. You could have had as much water as you wanted later."
"But I am thirsty,"
"Well, then, shall we proceed with the weigh?"
"Indeed."
"Right, that's forty-five measures' worth, then. Where does this pepper come from?"
"It was imported from Ramapata, in the kingdom of Leedon. Here's the certificate of import from the Milone Company."
"From Ramapata, then? It's come quite a ways, then - I can scarcely imagine the place,"
"The certificate seems authentic,"
"Right, then, it'll be one lumione per measure. Will this do?"
"Can you tell me what the lumione is trading at currently?"
"Mr. Lawrence, as I recall, you follow the path of Saint Metrogius in business, like your teacher did, correct?"
"Yes. Perhaps it's the protection of Saint Metrogius that's kept my travels safe and my business sound."
"So I presume that you'll take payment in trenni silver?"
"In trenni silver,"
"the current rate is thirty-two and five-sixths."
"That price will be fine, sir."
"Ughh..."
"Whatever is the matter?"
"U-ugh... I'm, I'm dizzy..."
"Are you recovered?"
"... A bit. Thank you,"
"A long journey will tire even the strongest man,"
"I may well be tired from the travel. My vision seemed to tilt suddenly..."
"That won't do. Ah, I have it - shall I bring some goat milk? It's fresh from yesterday's milking,"
"Sir,"
"I believe I am yet a bit dizzy."
"Heavens. Shall I call a physician?"
"Look here. It's tilting before my very eyes,"
"Wha-!"
"So, then, did I drink water, or was it wine?"
"What I drank was wine. Was it not?"
"There's a saying that 'no one drinks less than the master of a full tavern' - this must be what that means,"
"The secret to prosperity is being the only sober one, eh?"
"It seems I'm drunk on the same wine as my companion. I doubt we'll be able to remember anything we've seen or heard in here... though in exchange I may be a bit unreasonable."
"Wh-what do you...?"
"Let's see... I think the amount we agreed to, plus the amount you were going to gain, plus, oh... you'll let us buy double on margin."
"I, uh, er, I can't possibly..."
"You can't do it? Oh, that's a shame... I'm feeling significantly less drunk."
"As for the goods, let's see. Given the amount, perhaps some highquality arms? Surely you have lots of goods bound for Ruvinheigen."
"... Arms, you say?"
"They're always a good bet for turning a tidy profit, and I can get the loan back to you quickly that way. What say you?"
"Weapons... you say?"
"Since I'm sure there's a trading company in Ruvinheigen with connections to yours, selling them there will balance out the books."
"What say you?"
"My thanks! I'd like to arrange for the goods immediately, as I hope to depart for Ruvinheigen very soon."
"U-understood. Er, as for the valuation..."
"I shall leave that to you. After all, I trust in God."
"Are you two quite finished?"
"negotiation"
"I daresay my drunkenness is lifting as well,"
"Some fine wine and mutton would do much for my spirits. Make sure the mutton's from the flanks now!"
"Make it quick now,"
"Hee-hee. Poor little man,"
"You've certainly a keen eye, as usual. I didn't notice a thing."
"I'm beautiful and my tail fur is sleek, but my eyes and ears are also keen. I noticed the moment we entered the room. I suppose he would've been sly enough to fool the likes of you, though,"
"I've nothing to say for myself,"
"Oh ho! I see you've matured a bit."
"spring fever."
"Whew... that was tasty."
"Now, then, I daresay I'll take a nap,"
"bed"
"Mm, I ought to tend to my tail,"
"Oh, that's right."
"... What?"
"When we get to the next town, I want oil."
"... Oil?"
"Mm. I've heard it would be good to use on my tail."
"So will you buy some for me?"
"The clothes you're wearing now, plus the extras, the comb, the travel fee, the wine and food - have you added them all up? There's the head tax when we enter a town, as well. Surely you're not telling 40/266 me you can't do sums,"
"I can surely do sums, but I'm still better at subtraction,"
"Well, perhaps you should try adding up all you've used. If you're such a wise wolf, you should be able to work out my answer from that."
"All right, I shall!"
"You will definitely buy me some,"
"Just look what happens to the wits of the proud wisewolf when she has too much wine,"
"After all, it's thanks to me that your wagon bed was so cheaply filled. You'll pull in a tidy profit."
"O-on what basis-"
"I won't have you belittle me. Surely you don't think I missed you strong-arming that master? I've a sharp mind, keen eyes, aye; but 41/266 don't forget, my ears are good, too. I couldn't have missed your negotiations."
"So you'll buy some oil for me, yes?"
"Uh, er, well, how much do you think you're in debt to me for? It's one hundred forty silver! Have you any idea how much money that is? And now you think I'm going to spend more on you?"
"Oh? What, you want me to pay you back?"
"Of. Course. I. Do."
"Oh, that's how it is."
"So that's how you've been thinking,"
"Wh-what do you-"
"Well, I suppose if I pay my debts, that makes me a free wolf. I see. I'll just pay you back, then."
"Come what may, you'll pay me back,"
"So leaving me now won't get you anything."
"In that case, I'll just give your money back and head myself north, shall I? I wonder how Paro and Myuri are faring."
"... We didn't decide the due date for repayment. Just as long as I get it by the time we arrive in the north country. Will that do?"
"I should think I'll be able to repay you by the time we've arrived in the north country,"
"And it's my intention to pay you back with interest, which means the more I borrow, the greater profit for you. So you'll do it for me, yes?"
"The oil, you mean?"
"Yes. Make it part of my debt, but please - buy it for me, won't you?"
"My thanks,"
"Still, you really did haggle him down, didn't you?"
"Rather he put himself in the position of having no choice but to be haggled down."
"How much?"
"What's the point of asking that?"
"What? I was just worried about sponging off a traveling merchant, who is barely scraping by. That is all."
"Weapons are the best-selling product in Ruvinheigen, but many merchants bring them into the city. Thus, the interest rate on them drops, and the amount I could bargain him down is limited."
"But you bought so much, you'll yet come out ahead, yes?"
"One raindrop raises the sea,"
"Well, I should think we'll make enough to pay for some oil, anyway,"
"Still, now that I think about it, some spice would be quite tasty,"
"You've eaten it?"
"I'm not like you, you glutton. I'm talking about the profit."
"Hmph. Well, why don't you load up on spice again, then?"
"The prices in Ruvinheigen and Poroson aren't so very different. I'd take a loss after paying the tariff."
"Then give it up, I say,"
"If I could get a rate about like what I'd normally get for spices or maybe a little more, I'd make enough to open a shop."
"Surely there's something,"
"Say... jewels or gold. Those are sure things, no?"
"Ruvinheigen is not a profitable place for such things really."
"... Why's that?"
"The tariff is too high. It's protectionism. They levy serious taxes on all but a certain group of merchants. There's no business to be had there."
"Huh."
"If we somehow smuggled gold in, we'd be able to sell it for, oh, ten times what we paid. But the danger rises with the profit, so I've no choice but to make money bit by bit."
"Oh truly?"
"Do you have some idea otherwise?"
"Why don't you just sneak it in?"
"If that were possible, everyone would do it."
"Oh, so you can't do that."
"When tariffs go up, smuggling does, too - it's a basic principle. Their inspections are very thorough."
"Surely a small amount wouldn't be found."
"If they do find anything, they'll cut off your hand at the very least. It's not worth the risk. It would be worth it if you were bringing a larger amount in... but that's impossible."
"Mm, 'tis true,"
"Well, your business is steady enough. It is well as long as you make steady coin."
"Right you are, but I seem to have a certain companion bent on wasting that same steady coin."
"I forgot to say it earlier, but the wine we got from the master - I've no intention of drinking it all myself. This evening we must drink together - and enjoy that mutton, too."
New Convo:

"'Tis good weather today,"
"It is."
"Ah, well, I'll be back soon enough, eh?"
"Hey."
"... Mm?"
"There is a group of people."
"What'd you say?"
"They are certainly there. I wonder what happened."
"Are they carrying weapons?"
"I... do not see any weapons. They don't seem to be annoying soldiers, at any rate."
"You've encountered soldiers?"
"They had long, sharp spears, which made them quite a bother. Though they couldn't keep up with my wits,"
"There's... no one about, yes?"
"Hmm... seems there's some kind of to-do,"
"Is there a market I've forgotten about?"
"I wonder. It doesn't smell of a fight. That's for sure."
"So what shall we do?"
"You don't smell any blood, do you?"
"Let's go, then. The detour is a bit too far."
"And even if they should be mercenaries, you have me,"
"So, to detour around here, take the path of Saint Lyne?"
"No, it's surely shorter to take the road that crosses the plains to Mitzheim."
"Anyway, is that talk about the mercenary band true?"
"Buy this cloth, won't you? I'll take salt in exchange."
"Anyone here speak Parcian? I think this guy's got a problem!"
"Excuse me,"
"Hm? Oh, a fellow traveler. Have you just arrived?"
"Yes, from Poroson. But what's going on here? Surely the local earl hasn't decided to open a market here."
"Hah! Nay, were that so, we'd all have mats spread on the ground and be trading the day away. In truth, there's tell of a mercenary band crossing the road to Ruvinheigen. So we're all stopped here."
"A mercenary band? I know General Rastuille's group patrols these parts."
"No, they were flying crimson flags with a hawk device upon them."
"The Heinzberg Mercenary Band?"
"Oh ho. I see you've traveled the northlands. Indeed, they say it's the Hawks of Heinzberg - I'd sooner run into bandits than them when carrying a full load of goods."
"So it seems taking a long detour is the only course,"
"Most probably. Apparently there's a new road to Ruvinheigen that heads off from the road to Kaslata, but it's been on the unsafe side lately, I hear."
"Unsafe?"
"Unsafe how?"
"Well, there have always been wolves in the plains, but it's been especially bad lately, they say. There's a story going around that an entire caravan was taken two weeks ago - and the wolves were summoned by a pagan sorcerer."
"How do you get to this new road?"
"Hah, you're going to go? You're quite the rash one. Take this road straight, then turn right when it forks. Keep going for quite a while, then it will split again, and you bear left. Though peacefully whiling away two or three days here should be all right. It'd take but five minutes to tell if the mercenaries really are there, but by the time you saw them, it'd be too late. The merchants with fish or meat will have to head to a different city, but I'll play it safe."
"Summoned, eh?"
"So, what is Holo the Wisewolf's take on this?"
"Hm?"
"The wolves in the plains,"
"Mm,"
"I think they'd be more interesting than humans. At the very least, we'll be able to talk."
"That decides it, then."
"Good luck,"
"You certainly seem happy,"
"I suppose,"
"What do you think? Any wolves about?"
"We wolves are hardly so foolish as to be spotted from a place with such an obviously good vantage,"
"It should be well, though. Should we happen into a pack, we'll just throw them some jerky. We wolves don't get into pointless fights, after all."
"A faram silverpiece."
"Nope. It's a counterfeit marinne."
"Wait, was not the counterfeit marinne this one?"
"No, that's a piece of late Radeon bishopry silver."
"..."
"Well, you'll pick it up as you use them, no doubt,"
"Once more, then!"
"All right, from the top."
"Mm."
"Trenni silver, phiring silver, ryut silver, fake marinne silver, faram silver, bald king Landbard silver, Mitzfing temple silver, fake Mitzfing temple silver, Saint Mitzfing silver, Miztfingmas silver, and this one is..."
"... W-wait, now."
"Hm?"
"Y-you're making sport of me,"
"Rrrrrr."
"The Mitzfing diocese in particular issues a lot of coin. I'm not teasing you, truly."
"Then don't laugh,"
"Anyway,"
"why are there so many coins? It seems such a bother."
"They're made when a new nation is established - or collapses. A powerful regional lord or church can issue coin, and of course, there's no end to counterfeiting. Even the ryut silver started out as a fake trenni piece, but it was so widely used it became an independent currency."
"But when pelts were used, you always knew what you were dealing with,"
"Still, it's a good way to kill time, eh?"
"Hmph. Enough. 'Tis time for a nap."
"Even napping, you'll know if wolves come near?"
"Of course I shall."
"It'll be a hassle if we're surrounded."
"You worry excessively,"
"Most animals are quite aware, be they sleeping or awake. 'Tis only you humans who are defenseless in slumber."
"You'd be more convincing if you snored less."
"I do not snore!"
"... Well, it's not too loud, I suppose,"
"I do not snore, I say."
"Fine, fine,"
"I do not."
"All right! Fine!"
"Still, there really doesn't seem to be anyone around,"
"Rumors are a powerful force,"
"True enough,"
"Though it's not quite true that there's no one about,"
"I smell sheep. There will be a shepherd ahead - I so hate shepherds."
"Shall we detour?"
"Nay, it's them who should run from us. There's no need for us to move aside."
"Well, if you say so, we'll stay the course. The fields suit our wagon quite well."
"I've despised shepherds longer than you've been alive. Getting along with them now is impossible,"
"There's all that delicious meat just walking about, but imagine just having to look at it, never tasting it - you'd hate them, too, would you not?"
"I am Lawrence, a traveling merchant. This is my companion, Holo,"
"I have come by this road and met you by the grace of God, and if you are a good shepherd and true, you'll be well met."
"By the blessing of God in the heavens..."
"By the protection of the spirits of the land..."
"The word of God is carried on the wind, and the blessings of the spirits of the land inhabit the very grass eaten by the lamb."
"The lambs are led by the shepherd, and the shepherd by God."
"By the grace of God, the shepherd follows the path of righteousness."
"My apologies for doubting you. You surely are a shepherdess,"
"Having met you by the grace of God, I would have you pray for our safe travels, shepherdess."
"With pleasure."
"Palti, mis, tuero. Le, spinzio, tiratto, cul."
"Well, then,"
"Er, are you perchance bound for Ruvinheigen?"
"Yes, we're on our way there from Poroson."
"How did you come to hear of this path?"
"It's the pilgrimage road of Saint Metrogius. We heard of it just the other day."
"I see... Er, have you heard about the wolves, then?"
"I have indeed,"
"But I'm in a hurry, so I decided to take the risk."
"I see..."
"Is something the matter?"
"Er, well, um... that is..."
"Anything at all - is there something you need?"
"Well, I... I was wondering if you mightn't... hire me."
"Ah, well, as you can see, I'm a merchant, and I don't trade in sheep. I'm sorry, but..."
"Oh, no, not that-"
"I'm a shepherd. Um, I tend my flock, but I can also drive off wolves."
"If you'll be so good as to hire me, I can protect you and your companion from wolves. Would you consider it?"
"Wait a moment, if you would. I'll consult with my companion."
"Th-thank you!"
"What do you think of that shepherdess?"
"Hm? Mm..."
"I'm far more fetching."
"Not that - I mean her skills."
"Skills?"
"What can you tell of her, as a shepherd? If she's good, she might be worth hiring. You heard us, surely."
"You already have me, do you not?"
"Of course. But it never occurred to me to use a shepherd to drive off wolves. There could be new business in it."
"I'm not being blinded by charm. You are the fairer, after all,"
"Okay?"
"I suppose that's a passing mark,"
"So, what of her skill?"
"I cannot say for certain without seeing her in action, but I suppose she'll be in the top half."
"Can you be a bit more concrete?"
"I could take a sheep from her. However, normal wolves would be dealt with, even if they attacked together."
"Her treatment of the sheep is very proficient. The worst shepherds are the ones with clever dogs who know how to cooperate with them. That one does both, I daresay. Her voice suggests that she's young, which makes it even worse. Before she gets any more dangerous, I've half a mind to-"
"All right, all right. Thanks."
"Hey."
"Yes?"
"Are you really going to hire that?"
"Aah. You hate her that much?"
"Well, as long as you're asking, no, I don't care for shepherds, but that's not what I mean. I'm talking about you."
"... Excuse me?"
"If you're going to hire her, that means she will be traveling with us for a time. I'm asking you if you have no problem with that."
"You don't like it?"
"I didn't say that,"
"It's about two days to Ruvinheigen. No good?"
"... Nor did I say that,"
"Well, in that case, I'm sorry, but I'll have to impose upon your patience,"
"What exactly am I to endure, then?"
"Mm, well..."
"I'd just like to see how effective a shepherd is against wolves. You can manage for two days, can't you?"
"... 'Tis not impossible. But that is not the issue."
"Well..."
"If we travel carelessly with someone else, they might find out about me, might they not? And I could manage, aye, but what about you?"
"Oh ho. I see how it is."
"You wanted me to say something like this, mm?"
"I... I wanted to travel with just you..."
"I jest."
"Honestly,"
"I doubt I'll be exposed in two days. Do as you will,"
"This conversation is over."
"Sorry to keep you waiting."
"Oh, n-not at all. So-"
"How does forty trie for the trip to Ruvinheigen sound? With a bonus if wolves attack and we make it through safely."
"Y-yes, please!"
"It's a deal, then,"
"Might I inquire as to your name, miss?"
"Oh, um, my apologies,"
"It's N-Norah. Norah Arendt."
"Again, I'm Kraft Lawrence. I go by Lawrence in business."
"I'll be counting on you 'til Ruvinheigen!"
"My thanks,"
"Enek!"
"So, Norah, you..."
"Yes?"
"Have you been a shepherd long?"
"Just four years now."
"So your sheepdog - er, Enek, I mean - you trained him yourself?"
"No, I found him."
"I became a shepherd after I found him."
"And before that?"
"I helped at an almshouse attached to an abbey and in return was allowed to live there."
"When I was relying on the almshouse, I thought I would never leave such work. It was good fortune meeting Enek."
"The result of daily prayer, surely."
"Yes, I can't help but think that I have God to thank for our meeting."
"I met him after the almshouse had lost its land to a swindling merchant,"
"When I found him, he was in a sad state, covered in wounds,"
"From wolves?"
"No, I think it was brigands or mercenaries... There weren't wolves in the area. He was wandering about at the base of a hill with this staff in his mouth."
"I see."
"Still, this is the first time I've had a shepherd offer their services as an escort."
"Hm?"
"Normally they'd refuse such a request, to say nothing of offering work,"
"Um..."
"What's that?"
"I just... wanted to talk to someone..."
"Although there is one other thing,"
"I'd like to become a dressmaker."
"Ah, so it's the guild membership dues you need."
"They're high nearly everywhere. Though not necessarily so in a new town."
"Really? Is that true?"
"Sometimes the guild dues are free, in newly founded towns."
"F-free..."
"If we meet any other merchants on the road, you should ask them if they know of any plans to found new towns in the area. If they know, they'll probably be happy to tell you."
"Fewer towns have been founded recently, though, so you'd do well to save steadily as you pray for good fortune, of course,"
"Yes. God can become angry if you rely on him too much."
"Uh, er, so, speaking strictly from the standpoint of a merchant, you might make more money escorting my kind like this than you do tending sheep. Surely the territory disputes are difficult."
"... They are,"
"The safest places already have shepherds occupying them."
"So all that's left are wolf-strewn fields."
"Yes."
"Wolves certainly can be troublesome - ow!"
"I'm sure the wolves are only looking for food, but sometimes they take lives in the process... A safer place would be nice,"
"Well, wolves are sly and treacherous creatures,"
"If I speak ill of them, they may hear, so I won't."
"Indeed,"
"Still,"
"if you've skill enough to defend your flock even through wolf-infested fields, shouldn't your services be in great demand and your flock huge?"
"No, no, it's only by the grace of God that I remain safe... and I'm thankful to have any work at all. A huge flock, I just couldn't..."
"Well, then your employer has no eye for skill,"
"Mayhap it's time for a change."
"Oh, I couldn't possibly!"
"My apologies. I am sorry. As a merchant, I am always thinking of gains and losses."
"N-no, it's all right,"
"... Um,"
"Yes?"
"I, I was wondering... do people change their employers... often?"
"Well, yes, I think it's normal if one is unsatisfied with one's terms of employment."
"I see..."
"If you don't mind my asking, is your employer by any chance the Church?"
"How did you-"
"Call it a merchant's secret,"
"Don't get cocky,"
"Er, well... yes. I receive my flock from a priest of the Church, but..."
"If it's the Church, you should have no troubles with your work. You've found a good employer."
"Yes, I was truly blessed,"
"I've no sympathy at all."
"They've entrusted me with a flock,"
"and they've aided me in many other ways."
"the devil's hands,"
"I see,"
"I daresay you need not worry about finding a different employer."
"Do you think so?"
"Yes - with the Church's insistence on honorable poverty, your pay will always be a bit low, but so long as God doesn't abandon us, the 83/266 Church will always exist. You'll not want for work. As long as you have work, you'll eat. Isn't that something to be thankful for?"
"I suppose so,"
"Anyway, I've many acquaintances in Ruvinheigen, so we'll try asking there after any merchants that might need protection from wolves. After all, God never said anything about having a nice little sideline, eh?"
"Truly? Oh, thank you!"
"Settling in a town is the dream of all who live by travel, after all."
"Hard work, this,"
"Daily care of one's tail is important."
"Oh, you meant the child,"
"Her name's Norah Arendt,"
"Look, I did ask you,"
"Can't even groom my tail in peace."
"Why don't you do it in the wagon bed?"
"Hmph. If I do it there..."
"If you do it there, what?"
"You certainly seemed to enjoy your little chat with her,"
"Hm? With Norah?"
"She wanted to talk. I didn't have any reason to refuse, did I?"
"Also, I haven't spoken to a normal girl in some time,"
"You couldn't even tell that she hated speaking with you?"
"Huh...?"
"Well, if she fell in love with me at first sight, she'd miss the fun of falling for me over weeks and months, eh?"
"I've some wit myself, eh?"
"Mmph... bu-ha-ha-ha! Oh, oh, that's too good! Oh! Ha-ha-ha-ha!"
"Okay, that's too much laughing."
"... Ye gods,"
"Haah. Whew. Oh... oh my. That was amusing."
"Are you quite done?"
"Mm. That was quite a trump card you had there."
"Well, as long as you're happy now."
"Hm? Happy?"
"You were in a foul temper earlier - because you couldn't tend to your tail, you said."
"Oh, quite,"
"Can't be helped,"
"Anyway, your trump card made me laugh so hard I turned giddy,"
"Is the child not cold, I wonder?"
"Payment for your services as a jester."
"Only one piece of jerky for such laugher?"
"Oh, you don't want it?"
"I do think, from time to time, that some raw mutton would be nice - what say you?"
New Convo:

"Right, then, here's your forty trie."
"Er, but, if I exchange this, won't it come to more than...?"
"Call it an investment,"
"An... investment?"
"Now that I know such a skilled shepherd, I might be able to turn a surprising profit on wool,"
"We'll be at the Rowan Trade Guild for a while. If you've plans to take your flock afield again, come by there first. I might be able to introduce you to a merchant in need of escort."
"I shall."
"Oh, one last thing. The area where you can provide escort - is it just the route we took?"
"Er, I can go as far as Kaslata and Poroson. Oh, and also to Lamtra."
"Lamtra, eh? I daresay you'll have some business,"
"Thank you very much!"
"My pleasure. Well, then, I'll be entering from the southeast gate, so here's where we part ways."
"Certainly. I hope we meet again,"
"You think me so ill-natured?"
"Hmph. Well, now we'll see how those honeyed peach preserves taste! I am surely looking forward to that."
"Hm. So you remembered that, did you?"
"Surely you're not saying you won't buy any!"
"We can't buy any if they aren't selling any."
"Well, naturally,"
"Oh, and you probably know this already, but try to act a little more nun-like at the next checkpoint. They'll be more lenient on a nun."
"Hmph. I'm not so foolish as to stir up trouble in a city such as this. But do I even resemble a nun?"
"There's no trouble on that count."
"Heh, is that so?"
"... What, you're not angry?"
"Hm? Why would I be?"
"Well, I mean... the Church is your enemy, more or less."
"Not necessarily. 'Tis the same as having someone like you around. Nuns are all fundamentally kind, and even a wolf like me can tell that most of them are quite lovely. Beauty transcends species."
"I don't think I could suffer the constant fasting, though,"
"You there, merchant!"
"Staring at the city will get you in an accident!"
"My apologies."
"Next! Uh, you there! The merchant that just got scolded!"
"Passage papers,"
"Right here."
"Hm. Out of Poroson, eh? Your goods?"
"Twenty sets of armor."
"Armor? From Poroson?"
"Ah, yes. I bought them from the Latparron Company in Poroson. Is there a problem?"
"This does seem like Poroson armor. Will you be paying in coin or stock?"
"Stock,"
"Good answer,"
"Turn in two sets of armor over there,"
"Hey, merchant,"
"What?"
"Mm. I am hungry."
"..."
"Mmm, that's tasty,"
"The liquor is good and the people lively - 'tis a good city, no?"
"The liveliness comes at a price - we have to watch ourselves, especially around any knights or mercenaries. A quarrel with their ilk will be more trouble than we need."
"You can count on me,"
"Right, well, we should be moving on."
"Mm? Already? I've not yet begun to drink."
"You can drink more tonight. Let's go."
"come again!"
"So, then, where do we go?"
"To the trading house - and at least wipe your mouth, hm?"
"Why, you - I'll remember that."
"And yet you've already hit me,"
"Still,"
"Hm?"
"Why must you drag me along to this trading house? I'd just as soon drink my fill in the square."
"It's too dangerous to leave you alone,"
"Mm, 'tis true. I am a bit too lovely to be left alone!"
"No amount of loveliness will put Church guards or temple knights off your tail,"
"What if you get drunk and let your ears or tail show?"
"Why, I'll just turn on them. I'll grab you in my jaws, and we'll dash from the city. I can surely leap over those walls. Isn't there some old story about a knight and a princess like that?"
"What, the one where the knight rescues the captured princess?"
"That's the one!"
"Well, don't do that,"
"Mm. If you're the one that's captured, there's little gain in rescuing you."
"Right then, I've got business to take care of, so just wait here,"
"What, are you not going to bring me in and show me off to your old village mates?"
"That would basically amount to a preamble to marriage. My town's marriage ceremonies are quite rowdy - are you sure you're up for that?"
"I'll be done soon. If you wait nicely, I'll buy you some sweetbread,"
"I'll thank you not to treat me like a child."
"Oh, you don't want any?"
"I do."
"Well, now, what a poor merchant is this! Wandering around a trading house at this hour - cares not a whit for 105/266 making money. You'd do better changing into a thief's clothes and getting yourself to an alehouse!"
"The greatest merchants make money without dirtying their shoes with so much as a speck of dust; their only stain is the ink upon their fingers. Running around the marketplace all day is the sign of the third-rate merchant. Am I wrong?"
"You've gotten clever, boy. Welcome home, my son!"
"Stop the 'my son' nonsense."
"What are you saying? All in the Rowen Trade Guild are my sons and daughters."
"And yet I know of all the times you wet your bedroll after we made camp - and is it not the teaching of God that a good father knows well his son? Or should I mention the time you stole the cash box and snuck off with your friends, trembling, to the whorehouse?"
"All right, all right. I'm Kraft Lawrence, then, son of the great Jakob Tarantino."
"So, Kraft my boy. You're back in Ruvinheigen after a year gone. How fares our family in other towns?"
"They're all doing well by the grace of the saints."
"Good, good. Well, now, if you've gone the rounds among family, you must be fairly brimming with profit! If your purse is heavy, your trousers sag. If your trousers sag, the ladies won't like you. And you, lad, are a vain one. Am I wrong?"
"I've heard that the ability to handle figures gets bad with age, but old Jakob's eyes are still sharp, I see."
"Ha-ha-ha, the little bed wetter's bringing in real silver now! How lovely."
"Enough about the bed-wetting."
"You still are one to me, boy."
"Well, then, you've come all the way out here in the middle of the day, so you must be here on business. You need a certificate?"
"Yes."
"I surely look forward to the day when you're a famous enough merchant that people flinch at the mention of your name,"
"You're telling me,"
"Oh, right. Do you know of any traders in the guild that're headed to Lamtra?"
"Now that's a strange question,"
"I was just thinking of providing a shortcut to Lamtra in exchange for a consideration..."
"Oh ho. Have you met a certain young shepherdess?"
"You're far from the first to have that idea, boy. Especially after the road that went through the area she wanders was finished. But nobody makes a business of that now, and nobody asks that girl for escort. Do you know why?"
"Because there's no business in it?"
"That girl's the only one who wanders that area unscathed. Sure, Norah the Nymph's pretty popular with her charm and skill, but I don't have to tell you what the Church thinks about that. Nobody wants to get tangled up with those sons of bitches."
"I know Norah the Nymph is the type of girl you like, but here's some free advice: Give it up."
"So, who do I make the certificate out to? Or should I leave it blank?"
"No, make it out to the Remelio Company, please."
"Remelio, eh? If you already know who you're selling to... you must be selling on margin, then, hmm?"
"Yes. Out of Poroson. Is there something I should know?"
"Mm. Well, you'll see when you get there. Here, your certificate."
"The Rowen Trade Guild is under the protection of Saint Lambardos. I'll pray for your good fortune,"
"My thanks..."
"Yes, yes, you'll see when you go. It's you we're talking about here, so I'm sure you'll turn it to your advantage."
"Oh, and just you wait before getting involved with any girls, you hear? Even a mild one like Norah's too much for you to handle - a city girl would take up all your profits just like that!"
"You can't invest without capital."
"Ha-ha! Well met, you bed wetter!"
"Oh, there he is. That's my companion,"
"They were precious. Called me a beautiful rose, they did,"
"Don't mess around with them. Apprentice boys are like wild dogs. You could get taken."
"And in that case, you could come rescue me again. Am I wrong?"
"Sure, I'd rescue you."
"Of course, in the end, I was the one who rescued you."
"I don't know what kind of return you're expecting, but I'll take that investment,"
"... You heard all that?"
"My precious little ears can tell when you so much as twitch an eyebrow. So you have a thing for fair hair, do you?"
"Huh?"
"And so scrawny, too. Or do you like the careworn look? Or do you just have a thing for shepherdesses?"
"Now wait just a minute - that's just Master Jakob's way of saying hello. If he's got an opportunity, it's like a game for him to say stuff like that. I'm not-"
"Not what?"
"W-well, sure, I thought Norah was nice. I can't say our conversation wasn't nice. But... that doesn't mean I'm not thinking of you, or... well, it doesn't mean that."
"I was just teasing..."
"I didn't think you'd take me at my word, there... it's nice."
"Still, males are ever thus. They'll say anything."
"So - you'll need to show me something. Do knights not entrust their swords and shields as proof of their good faith? You're a merchant, so what will you show me?"
"Fine,"
"I'll show you I don't say such things lightly."
"I'll buy you some honeyed peach..."
"Oh,"
"Don't tell me you-"
"Wh-what? What's wrong? You were about to say you would buy me something?"
"You know, there are some things you just can't do!"
"You said I should ask more charmingly!"
"No, I said you should ask nicely. I never said anything about feminine wiles!"
"But I was charming, was I not?"
"Though I must say,"
"you were twice as charming. That was far more exciting than if my plan had gone as I meant it to."
"Come now, don't be angry!"
"whose fault is that?"
"I was happy, though, truly. Are you still angry?"
"Fine, I'm not mad. I'm not mad - okay?"
"It won't do to get separated. May I take your hand?"
"Yes, we mustn't get separated,"
"So, what about my honeyed peach preserves?"
"Is this company managed by monks?"
"With monks, I'd at least expect to hear prayers. But I don't hear a thing."
"poor people can sleep between them standing up"
"If you eat that much, the sound of your chewing is going to wreck that hearing you're so proud of."
"Nicely put - but for the sake of my reputation, I should tell you I can hear the sound of someone in the building."
"There's someone there?"
"Mm... mmph... mrgh. Seems dangerous, though. At the very least, it's nothing pleasant."
"Well, there's no point wandering around here. We can't make money if we can't sell the goods."
"A meat pie's no good until you eat it,"
"I was saving that!"
"I daresay there are a few hours left before the sabbath - so what is the matter?"
"Er, well, that is... did sir come to the city today...?"
"No, I came a few days ago. You know how it goes. Well, you seem busy, so I'll come by later. I'm in no special hurry."
"Well, now, do wait just a moment, sir. I can tell sir is a trader of some repute. It would be rude of me to let sir leave empty-handed."
"Not at all,"
"I'm a merchant with little besides complaints to sell."
"Sir shouldn't sell himself so cheaply! Even a blind beggar could tell sir is a man of stature!"
"Flattery will get you nowhere,"
"Well, then, I'll take my leave..."
"Yes... most unfortunate. I await sir's return,"
"I believe I forgot to ask sir's name,"
"Lawrence. From the Rowen Trade Guild."
"Lawrence, you say. Indeed. From the Latparron Company."
"You were bringing some armor to our company, yes?"
"Actually, last night a messenger on a fast horse came to us. The Latparron Company has had their obligations assigned to our company. So, you see, you have a debt to us, Mr. Lawrence."
"What is wrong?"
"The merchant beside you has failed at business - just like us."
"What?"
"The price of armor must have plunged some time ago. The old fox at Latparron shifted his dead stock onto us."
"We've been had..."
New Convo:

"We both live by such agreements. You understand, right?"
"Of course I do. I'm a merchant, after all."
"It's simple. Of the exactly one hundred lumione worth of armor you bought from the Latparron Company, you will need to remit to us the amount recorded in the obligation deed, to wit - forty-seven and three-quarters lumione. You are aware of what this amounts to, correct?"
"We'd like you to settle your debt immediately. Otherwise..."
"... We'll have to demand that the Rowen Trade Guild assume the debt in your place."
"Well, the term of the loan was through the day after tomorrow, so give me two days. I'll pay back the forty-seven and three-quarters lumione by then,"
"What do you wish to do with the armor you brought, Mr. Lawrence? It will only sell for a pittance if it even sells at all, regardless of where you go."
"I'll sell it high somewhere. You'll see. We'll settle the debt in two days. Will that do?"
"Yes, we'll be waiting."
"I should say,"
"that our company's stalls are near the city gates. If you plan to use them, do let us know."
"I expect I'll be busy with negotiations, so although I appreciate your informing me, I doubt I will use them."
"I'll take my leave, then,"
"We look forward to seeing you in two days. May God's protection go with you."
"Sorry to keep you waiting,"
"Let's go."
"... Hey."
"Hm?"
"What... what happened?"
"If you want to know what happened, the load behind us is worthless."
"Mmph. Then I suppose I didn't hear wrong."
"Incidentally, this could mean bankruptcy for me."
"Will you run?"
"If I run once, I'll be on the run forever. The information networks of the trade guilds and companies are like the very eyes of God. No matter where I went, if I tried to do business, I'd be found out immediately. I'd never be able to be a merchant again."
"But the going rate for an injured animal to free itself is gnawing through its own limb. You won't content yourself with that?"
"Impossible,"
"If I pay back the equivalent of forty-seven lumione gold pieces, that'll be enough. I still have my goods on hand. I can settle my debts here and sell the armor somewhere far away, where it'll fetch a decent price. It's not impossible,"
"I'm Holo the Wisewolf. I'm sure I can be of some help."
"This is rather different from covering your meals."
"I said all along I'd pay for my own food."
"I know, I know,"
"If it becomes necessary, I swear on my honor to free you - even if I must use the power within this wheat."
"You promised to accompany me back to the northlands. I can't have you getting tripped up here."
"I'll keep that promise, and-"
"-if it comes to it, I may need saving."
"Count on it,"
"So, what will you do now?"
"We'll go to the guild house first. That's all we can do."
"Mm. If they're truly your comrades they'll come to your aid."
"Right, I'm heading out for a moment, so you just wait here-"
"Do I look like the kind of ungrateful wolf that lets her companion face a crisis alone?"
"No, but-"
"Do I?!"
"You don't, but that's not the issue."
"What is the issue, then?"
"The guild house is like home for merchants like me. You understand what bringing a girl home means, right?"
"It is not as though I'm playing at ignorance of the situation."
"Explaining our situation is impossible! How am I supposed to account for my relationship to you?"
"Just claim we're lovers, then. "Tis better by far than being left here,"
"stay at the inn."
"Fine. Come along. You're the smart one, anyway."
"Mm. You can rely on me."
"However-"
"-this is a business meeting. Don't do anything crazy. That lot can give a rough welcome."
"Right then, let's go."
"Let's!"
"I daresay I thought he was going to take a swing at you."
"At least he spared us the trouble of explaining the worst of the news. I should thank him."
"I suppose it depends on perspective."
"envy"
"jealousy"
"Oh ho, this must be God's will."
"You've caught a rare jewel here, Lawrence."
"I didn't catch her - I was caught by her, Chief Tarantino."
"Let's talk."
"Didn't you pass the fellow from the Remelio Company?"
"I did. At the front door."
"Ah. I thought you'd be lucky and miss him."
"... Why is that?"
"Because there was no noise when we came to blows."
"This is where I work. There'll be nobody to listen to our conversation here, so you can relax on that count,"
"Well, then, where shall we begin?"
"First, I'd sure like to know who and what that beauty of yours is."
"She's a business partner. We're traveling together."
"Ho, a business partner?"
"The Milone Company in Pazzio offered me one hundred forty trenni for the furs I was selling, but in the end, they bought them for a full two hundred trenni. She's the one who made it happen."
"I said it this morning when I was here. 'You can't invest without capital.'"
"I don't need to know the details. Your like does show up every once in a while, after all."
"Huh?"
"One day they just show up at the guild, stunning beauty in tow, everything going well in business and life. And they never want to give details about the woman. So I don't ask anymore. The scriptures say not to open strange boxes, after all."
"'Tis a prudent decision,"
"Well, then, let's speak frankly then, shall we? If you two were a couple, I'd have tried to convince you to head straight to the church and make it official. But if you're in business together, well, that's different. You'll hang together or hang separately - your partner's fall is your own misfortune. The bonds of gold run thicker than blood!"
"Let me get the story straight. The fellow from Remelio that just left told it like this: Kraft Lawrence, attached to the Rowen Trade Guild, bought one hundred lumione worth of armor from the Latparron Company in Poroson. We're liable for roughly half. Now the Remelio Company holds the debt. Is that it?"
"I didn't hear what kind of armor it was, but the armor is going for about one-tenth what it previously was, so even if you sell it for that price, you've still got to make up about forty lumione. That comes out to fifteen hundred pieces of trenni silver."
"It looks like you were completely taken in by the Latparron Company. I won't ask the details. From what I've heard, that won't change the situation. No matter what anyone thinks, you got greedy and made a mistake. Is that right?"
"It is, exactly."
"If you understand that, this will be a simple conversation. You must pay back on your own the debt that the guild will, in all likelihood, 137/266 shoulder. When you meet with fraud or extortion, when you become sick or injured and suffer losses, we in the trade guild put our credit on the line to save you. But not this time. The only ones to come to your aid now will be the gods-"
"-or that beauty."
"I understand."
"Unfortunately, I'm not in a position where I can show you any compassion - and the reason why I must be so strict is just outside in the lobby. It is guild law. If it became known that this trade house goes easy on its members, it would be a target for riffraff from all around."
"Of course. I myself would be angry if I heard some other member had been saved from his own failure."
"Also, you surely know this, but guild members are forbidden from lending money to each other. Neither can the guild lend you money. It would set a bad example."
"I understand."
"Based on what the Remelio Company messenger told me, your obligation comes due in two days. Their own investments in armor have failed, so they're feeling the heat as well. They won't hesitate in demanding repayment. In other words, your failure will become public the day after tomorrow, and I'll have to detain you. What have you concluded from this?"
"If I do not collect forty-seven lumione in two days and pay the Remelio Company back, there is no future for me,"
"That's not quite true."
"You future will come,"
"But it will be black, bitter, and heavy."
"Forty-seven lumione could be paid off in ten years of rowing on a trade ship - or working in a mine. Of course, you'd have to avoid injury and sickness."
"But it is not as though I wish death on you. Don't forget that. A sin must be punished - and it is my duty to enforce that simple principle."
"I understand."
"There's nothing I can do besides wish you luck over the next two days, but if there is anything I can do, I will. Standard business assistance is no problem. Also, I trust you. I ought to tie you up for the next two days, but you can go free."
"I thank you for your consideration. I'll try to find the money in the next two days, somehow."
"There are always possibilities in business - and some you can only see when you are in true danger."
"Have you anything you want to ask or say?"
"I want you to think of what you'll say when I repay the money."
"I'll think of something, don't you worry! And you, my dear, have you anything to say?"
"Right, that should wrap things up. We shouldn't talk too long. They're a suspicious lot out there, you know. If rumors get around, it'll be harder for you to act."
"Well, we've got two days of freedom. We've no choice but to see what we can do with it,"
"So. What will you do?"
"First, before we do any more thinking, we need to test something."
"And that is?"
"Debt for debt."
"Well, well, Lawrence! It's been a while. What's your angle today?"
"Five lumione? Sorry, friend, times are tough for me at the moment. It's the end of the year, prices of wheat and meat are up, and I've got to lay in stock for spring. Sorry, I just..."
"We'll try another one."
"by the way"
"Excuse me,"
"Who is there?"
"It has been a while, Mr. Lawrence."
"It has. I'm very sorry to trouble you after the market's closed, but I have a favor to ask..."
"I happened to hear that you've been making the rounds with your request."
"Er, yes... though it embarrasses me to say so..."
"And it's a sizable amount. Is this because of the drop in armor prices, I wonder?"
"Yes. I was naive and made a mistake."
"A naive mistake? I suppose it was at that."
"Yet only the gods can predict a sudden fall in price. It's unfair to rebuke you for being unable to do so."
"If you're in trouble, Mr. Lawrence, I thought that I might be able to be of some help to you. You've helped me turn a profit many a time. But while I'm a merchant, I also live by the teachings of God, and I need to know your sincerity."
"You've got a woman in tow even as you make the rounds, depending on the compassion of others to lend you money? Preposterous. How far the Rowen Trade Guild has fallen!"
"Don't just stand in the middle of the road!"
"Hey there. Are you all right?"
"Your face is quite pale. Let's hie to the inn-"
"If only you hadn't-"
"I'm... sorry..."
"... I'm going back to the inn,"
"Well, you're back early"
"Holo."
"I'm sorry."
"-!"
"This is all the money I was able to get on my own. Three lumione. I still have to raise over forty more, but I've no way to do it. I can think of no way to use that as capital to raise what I need."
"All I can think of to do is take the money to a gambling house and hope for luck. But if I give it to the person who really should have it, I feel it may yet increase. So I entrust it to you."
"And if everything goes bad, well, adding three lumione won't make a difference anyway."
"You fool"
"Get back in here, then,"
"My companion threw it out the window, you see,"
"Try to keep it down, please,"
"You fool!"
"Sorry."
"The money..."
"How did you collect it?"
"You want to know?"
"What was I to do, run off with your precious money?"
"That's half the reason I collected it. If my failure means I can't fulfill my end of the bargain, the least I could do is leave you some travel money-"
'"Travel... money'...?"
"Well, yes..."
"Of all the absurd..."
"It is my fault, is it not? If I were not here, you'd shoulder no debt! Why aren't you angrier? If I were... if I were...!"
"But I was the one at fault. You came along because you were worried about me. I can't be angry at you for-"
"You-"
"-fool!"
"Urgh... damn this..."
"Look out!"
"... You..."
"You're so naive..."
"I'm... naive?"
"But... you are... are you not? No one would loan you money because I was with you, yet... yet..."
"I hit your hand away! I was mad at you - unjustifiably mad!"
"I... I... I followed you because I was selfish. When it went awry, of course you were angry. But I never thought you'd hit my hand away like that, so I wanted to be angry - I wanted to, but..."
"H-how could I be angry at you when you looked at me like that?"
"I became so foolishly vexed..."
"I'm sorry... No, what I mean is, when I hit your hand away, I thought I'd done something I'd never be able to take back, no matter how much I apologized,"
"Anyway, I... I just wanted to undo what I'd done. And if it didn't come across, well... I'm sorry."
"... Right, you."
"Hm?"
"Just answer me one thing."
"Why... why are you so..."
"... softhearted?"
"Just my personality, I guess."
"Y-you..."
"... Fool!"
"Y-your personality? Your personality? At least be a man and tell a lie worth falling for, you dunce!"
"S-sorry. The truth is-"
"Hear this, you. There are times when I want you to tell me something even if it's a lie, and times when if you lie to me it makes me want to give your face a sound beating. Which of these do you think we now face?"
"The latter,"
"Oh, you're a rare dunce indeed! How many males are there in the world, do you think, who would not have managed to say, 'I'm in love with you,' or 'You're precious to me,' or any other line to get a female to fall for him? I can see quite clearly what you are thinking, but I simply cannot believe it - I cannot believe you are such a soft touch!"
"But I suppose 'tis that same quality that lets me travel with you so easily. One can't have everything one wants."
"Still, I did want to hear you say it. So come now, try again."
"Give me a break, please,"
"Why are you so softhearted?"
"Because you're very special to me."
"Ha-ha-ha, what are we doing?"
"You made me do it!"
"Hee-hee. I suppose it was a good rehearsal for you,"
"Still, I must say-"
"Next time, just make me angry, yes? 'Tis nice you were so thoughtful, but sometimes it is quicker to have a nice loud row and solve our problems that way."
"Right, then. Looking at your face I can imagine how you got the money together - how much?"
"Three lumione and two-sevenths."
"You were right to count on my wit. I have a cunning plan."
"Wha... what is it?"
"Don't look too forward to it, or else I'll worry about not being able to do it,"
"What think you? Can it be done?"
"I'm sure everyone's thought the same thing, but it's actually impossible. I'm sure there are those who've tried it and been caught."
"Oh, surely, if you have to get a bunch of different people to cooperate. You'd never make it past the first gate."
"I swear on my own ears and tail, I happen to know exactly who we can count on to turn this plan into reality. From what I saw, she can certainly do it. In truth, I'm reluctant to ask her. "Even I can jump over the city walls if need be. But with your predicament, we don't have that luxury."
"So if help can be secured, you think it's possible?"
"I should think so, as long as nothing extraordinary happens."
"I see..."
"Right, I'll leave you to work out the little details,"
"I'm going to sleep."
"What, now?"
"I know nothing of the city. I've nothing to offer save the fact that it is possible to get gold into the city."
"Or, what, do you want me to stay beside you there?"
"rehearsal."
"I certainly do."
"It's cold, so no."
"..."
"Good morning."
"I'm hungry"
"If we head to the plaza, the stalls should be opening soon."
"Mm,"
"So, having thought about it for a night, what do you think?"
"We can do it."
"That's an awfully quick answer for you,"
"What do you mean?"
"Although, in any case, there are two barriers we have to overcome."
"Two?"
"In addition to whoever's carrying the gold, we have to find an investor who will help us buy up our supply. The three lumione I have on hand won't even be enough to compensate the carrier."
"There is one more problem, is there not? You only have today. Can you bring the gold into the city so quickly?"
"Naturally I've thought of that. It seemed like the biggest problem to me, as well. Call it strange, call it a miracle, but there is a key to solving all of those problems."
"Oh ho."
"We'll get the Remelio Company to invest."
"The Remelio Company is planning to smuggle gold,"
"But, in any case, we still lack time."
"Mm. Shall we then go right after breakfast?"
"Breakfast?"
"One can hardly fight on an empty stomach."
"Some meat would be nice!"
"Er, might I ask who is there?"
"My name is Lawrence. I visited yesterday. There is something I would very much like to speak with Mr. Remelio about..."
"Is that so? This way, please... Oh, I'm terribly sorry, your companion-"
"She's my apprentice. It's convenient for her to be dressed as a town girl at the moment, but I look forward to her becoming a fine merchant woman in the near future. I'd like her to sit in on the meeting."
"If you'll follow me, then..."
"Please wait here."
"May I convey what your business with us is today, Mr. Lawrence?"
"I'd like to discuss a way to settle my debt with this company, and possibly for this company to settle its own debts as well,"
"Your doubt is entirely understandable. That is why I'd like to speak with Mr. Remelio as soon as possible."
"I will take the message to the master,"
"I'm with you. Don't worry."
"Yeah."
"You said you have something important to discuss?"
New Convo:

"You don't mean-"
"I mean exactly that,"
"I understand that your debt is a difficult one to repay, but I can't have you making such ridiculous chatter."
"I'm sure there have been those who tried to smuggle gold this way before and were caught."
"Well, if you understand that, this will go quickly. It's easy for someone on the brink of ruin to mistake a reckless plan for a perfect one."
"What if you could entrust it to someone especially talented at smuggling?"
"What you propose is not possible. Someone so skilled as to be able to smuggle gold in would already be making plenty of money on his own. He wouldn't cooperate. If you plan to bring in someone from outside, you might as well give up now. There's no end to gold-smuggling plots like this, so inspections of anybody not registered with the city are especially thorough."
"What if there were someone who was highly skilled but not making good money?"
"If he is so skilled, finding work in this city is not difficult. There's already a shortage of labor."
"What if this skilled person had only ill-paying work in the city and a need for money? More importantly, what if this person's current employer left something to be desired? I'm referring to the Church. Importing gold flies directly in the face of the Church. We'll offer not only the opportunity for profit, but to exact some small revenge against the Church - it will be irresistible and the probability of betrayal very low, owing to a fair distaste for the employer."
"Th-that's far too convenient a tale."
"That's when business is most profitable. Am I wrong?"
"If I tell you this person's name, I think you will be able to accept it."
"I-in that case, why would you go to the trouble of coming to me and having another party demanding a share?"
"There are two reasons. The first is that the debt I owe this company comes due today, and at sundown I will surely be taken into custody in lieu of payment. The second is that this is all the coin I have on hand."
"It's three lumione. If you want to know how I raised it, just ask around among the merchant houses; you'll soon find out."
"This is truly everything I have. I want you to take it as collateral and trust what I am saying."
"I also want you to suspend the repayment of my debt and for your company to finance the purchase of gold for us to smuggle."
"Listen, you,"
"Do you think you have the luxury of wavering?"
"Wha-"
"Another person left just now. Can you keep dilly dallying like this?"
"E-er..."
"I've excellent hearing. Shall I tell you about your workers and their plans being hatched downstairs right now? Their plans to escape while they can?"
"Uh-"
"Whoops, there goes another one. At this rate the shop will be-"
"Stop!"
"Mr. Remelio,"
"I propose that you take these three lumione - everything I have - as a deposit and invest in gold. We know someone who will make the smuggling possible. If this person is paid well enough, trustworthiness is assured. And given your company, I'm sure you have a means to move the smuggled gold. What say you? If you'll postpone my loan and give me a fair portion, I want to conduct this operation with no unfavorable conditions placed on you."
"What say you?"
"Mr. Remelio,"
"All right."
"Let's do it."
"May God forgive us."
"Now, then,"
"Think you can really pull one over on the girl?"
"Such things you say."
"Am I wrong, then?"
"You don't change."
"You really are just too softhearted by half."
"Still, though,"
"It's thanks to that softheartedness that I've been able to travel so easily,"
"I suppose I'll have to talk her into it. I need to be of some use, after all."
"What, are you still thinking about yesterday?"
"There's no telling what would've happened back there if you hadn't leaned on Remelio. I'd say you were plenty useful."
"I'll talk to her myself. It was my eyes that were blinded by greed and got us into this mess, after all. It'd be absurd to make you do all the talking because of my reluctance."
"And anyway, if I let you help me too much, there's no telling how much I'll be taken advantage of later,"
"And here I was thinking I'd be able to call in some favors later."
"I certainly avoided quite a trap there,"
"Indeed, you did, but you're backing into a still larger trap. I don't hunt a rabbit caught in a trap. 'Twould be too feeble."
"Do you know the sort of wolf snare that uses a trapped rabbit as bait?"
"Make sure not to cower at the wolf howls when you set the trap. You'll foul the snare else."
"Anyway, merchants are like sabers - they're no good if they're not straight. They break otherwise,"
"Good day,"
"Er, L-Lawrence and... Holo, yes?"
"It is clear that us happening to meet in front of a church is the will of God,"
"I won't be fooled, Mr. Lawrence."
"And thank heavens for that. I have heard that lately there are those at services who have drunk a bit too much of the holy blood."
"I cannot drink much wine, so I mostly avoid it,"
"Actually, I am here about some work for you."
"This place being what it is, perhaps we should away to a stall somewhere..."
"Here's to our reunion."
"So, Norah, did you say you were able to go as far as Lamtra?"
"Y-yes, I can go that far."
"Even bring your flock?"
"As long as it's not too large."
"I want to hire you for a certain job. Compensation will be twenty lumione. Not in a cheap banknote, of course - it will be hard coin."
"However, there is risk, and the compensation is only if we succeed. Failure earns us nothing."
"The job will be moving sheep - then moving them back again as safely as possible. That will be all we need of your services as a shepherd."
"However, the work itself involves significant danger - proportional to the risk."
"Nevertheless, the pay is twenty lumione. Even the highest guild dues are but a single lumione. You could rent a house and take care of your daily expenses, working without worry. With that much, you could easily buy your own business. You would be the mistress of Norah Dressmakers."
"Oh, that's right - had you planned to join the tailors guild in this city, Norah?"
"N-no, I was thinking a different town."
"I see! Do you not like the sprawling size of this city compared with others? It can be quite hard to live in an unfamiliar city with no friends, I find."
"Well, I suppose you'll want to get away from this city and its churches, won't you?"
"N-no, I mean, not at all... Well, but..."
"The harder you work for them, the better you protect the sheep they've entrusted you, the more they'll suspect you of witchcraft. Am I wrong?"
"And as they try to expose you, you'll have to venture where other shepherds would never go - because the alternatives are already taken by those selfsame shepherds, you said."
"The priests will keep pushing you farther away until you're attacked by wolves or maybe mercenaries. And every day you're not, they'll suspect you of being a pagan."
"I've been in a similar situation myself. Let me say it plainly."
"The Church here is lower than pigs."
"But we have a plan. We'll give the Church some trouble, make some money, and head to a different town - that kind of plan."
"We will smuggle gold."
"But... what can I possibly do?"
"As I'm sure you know, gold coming into the city is heavily regulated. Every road that enters Ruvinheigen has checkpoints and two stages of examination. If you hide something in your sleeves or among your luggage, they'll find it on the spot. If you're trying to bring in a lot of something, it's even harder."
"We plan to get gold past the checkpoints by hiding it in the sheep's stomachs."
"Impossible,"
"I see,"
"But gold prices are absurdly high in any city affected by Ruvinheigen policy. That makes the pagan town of Lamtra the most convenient place from which to start. If you come via the safest routes from Lamtra, there's a lot of traffic, and much of that territory has been claimed by other shepherds. This is what makes you perfect for the job. No one will find it suspicious that you're bringing your sheep through a low-traffic route - and that route is the quickest path from Lamtra to boot."
"You've suffered at the hands of the Church in the city, Norah,"
"This is your best chance to turn the tables on them. The Church's two biggest sources of income are tithes and the gold trade, after all. But if we're caught, the punishments will be heavy, and once the job is done, we'll have to leave the city to be safe. And depending on circumstances, we may have to ask you to butcher the sheep."
"On the other hand, it's twenty lumione,"
"Please, let me do it."
"I shall count on you."
"... And I on you."
"Right, now for the details."
"Come, should you not be more happy? Everything has gone well and yet!"
"I don't care how great the profit; nothing exists to balance out the wager of a person's life,"
"I suppose that's true."
"And just talking up the profit like that is the same as fraud. Merchants have always said that it's a fool who's bound by an unfair contract. But what is she? Just a shepherdess!"
"Come, now,"
"Have you heard the terrible cry that a sheep makes when you tear out its throat?"
"Sheep have no fangs, no claws, no fleet feet with which to escape when wolves come flying across the field like arrows with claws, teeth, and speed to tear at their throats. What think you of this?"
"The death cry of a lamb is indescribable, yet my empty stomach complains constantly. If I must listen to one of them, I'll lend my ear to the louder of the two, will I not?"
"You're not so very bad."
"Hmph. Such a spoiled boy."
"Still, neither humans nor wolves can live alone. Sometimes one needs a pack mate to curl up with. Am I wrong?"
"Still, you're quite the dangerous one,"
"You'd best believe it. Watch yourself, lest I trick you as well."
"I'll look forward to that."
"In any case, we've no choice but to try and make sure we all end up laughing,"
"That's the spirit. Still..."
"... Would it not be even better for the two of us to have the last laugh?"
"You really are simply too softhearted."
"Is that so bad?"
"Far from it."
"My name is Marten Liebert, of the Remelio Company."
"Lawrence. And this is my companion, Holo."
"Um, I'm N-Norah. Norah Arendt."
"Let us go, then. Business is like fresh fish in the kitchen,"
"I am sorry. The pressure is getting to me, I think."
"Well, unlike me, you're carrying an entire company on your back. It's to be expected,"
"If we encounter wolves, do not panic. We will arrive safely,"
"God's protection be with us,"
"Hey."
"Hm?"
"Do you think wolves will be a problem?"
"No good. We're already surrounded."
"I can guarantee your safety. The others, I don't know about."
"We'll be in trouble unless everyone's okay."
"I truly do not know. The forest is downwind; if there are wolves, they've long since noticed us and started sharpening their fangs."
"Clever dog,"
"Being half-clever only invites death,"
"... What do you mean?"
"That dog, it knows what I am."
"It does?"
"Hiding my ears and tail will fool humans but not a dog. Ever since we first met, it's been looking at me in the most irritating way."
"But, here, what really irritates me"
"is that dog's eyes. Those eyes, they say, 'Just you try touching the sheep. I'll rip your throat out.'"
"surely not."
"Nothing makes me so angry as a dog that doesn't know its place,"
"And anyway, I am Holo the Wisewolf. I won't fall for some mere dog's provocation,"
"Indeed, that dog is no match for you. You're stronger, smarter, and your tail fur is finer."
"Well, I see you understand the way of it, then."
"the same as me,"
"-!"
"Mr. Lawrence, get back!"
"ignore the girl and get behind me."
"... Did we chase them off?"
"I'm not sure... At the very least, they seem to have backed away."
"The wolves in this area are always like this. I hardly ever hear them howl, and they do not seem to attack - they just watch..."
"'Tis a bit strange they don't even howl,"
"It could be aught besides wolves. For example, the spirit of a traveler who died here."
"Still-"
"I was half-serious. I have a bad feeling."
"Don't try to frighten me with your foolish stories,"
"Hmm, we seem to be out of firewood,"
"I'll just go gather some more then, shall I?"
"I'll come as well."
"As shall I."
"I-I'll help, too!"
"I hope everything goes well,"
"Indeed,"
"Now that I think of it..."
"Miss... Holo, I mean..."
"Do... Do you know a lot about wolves?"
"Um, I mean... I just, last night you noticed the wolves so quickly, so I..."
"What? I simply noticed them, that's all."
"Oh, I see..."
"I mean, the men are generally useless, after all,"
"Don't you think?"
"Um, I, I don't..."
"Hmph. So you think you can count on that?"
"In the first place, 'tis not strange to ask if someone like me, traveling alone with a man, knows a lot about wolves!"
"You see, the answer is completely self-evident! Because-"
"Because! Come nighttime, a wolf will always appear - tempted by this helpless, adorable rabbit. Surely you'll agree that a rabbit who is devoured by a wolf every night could not fail to know something about wolves!"
"Ah, 'twas a lovely reaction. But no - my first answer is the one to remember,"
"Oh."
"In truth, it's my companion that's more like a rabbit. If I left him on his own, he'd likely die of loneliness."
"But, in any case, I just happened to notice the wolves last night."
"Actually, I thought perhaps you were a shepherd, Miss Holo."
"Oh, because I was quick to notice the wolves?"
"Well, there is that, too,"
"Actually, it was because Enek seems to be very aware of you."
"Mm, is that so?"
"It's hard to say in front of a pet dog, but I daresay he's smitten with me."
"Wha-what? Er, you mean, Enek is?"
"My, it's nothing to be sad about. Any male will get overconfident if spoiled. I'm sure he's quite important to you, but that only makes him feel secure that he's gained your affection. There's no mistake; he'll go looking for others to frolic with. No matter how delicious the bread, sometimes you want soup."
"Put another way, sometimes you have to be cold. It's a good leash."
"If he ever has an affair, I'll keep that in mind."
"Good."
"I think I'd like to indulge him as long as I can, though,"
"Because... whether this job goes well or fails, I'll be giving up my work as a shepherd,"
"Now all we have to do is make it safely back with this and feed it to the sheep at an opportune time,"
"Then once we've gotten them through the gates, the sheep will be received as previously discussed. Are we agreed?"
"We are,"
"Then let us go. A golden tomorrow awaits us."
"... Mmph."
"good morning,"
"If you're awake, you don't need it"
"'Tis warmer over here."
"Oh, that's right,"
"Didn't you say you could predict the weather?"
"Surely. It will rain just past midday today,"
"Anyone could tell that, looking at this sky,"
"Wish we could take fast horses and make it to town before the rain. Anyway, what say you to some potato soup? It's been warming by the fire."
"I've no complaints. Also-"
"Your tail grooming, right?"
"I want to return to the inn as soon as we can. Though..."
"A rain is coming, though I haven't wished it so."
New Convo:

"Enek!"
"What to do, eh?"
"What to do, indeed."
"Listen-"
"What?"
"About my explanation before - I take it back."
"Explanation before?"
"Enek!"
"Fall back."
"The humans, as well."
"Youngsters these days, I suppose I could say."
"...!"
"Listen-"
"This is a trouble I must bear. When I send the girl and the kid on, you'll have to stay back for a time as well."
"Wha- why?"
"Because what's in that forest is no normal wolf. You understand, yes?"
"If I go along with them, the pack will chase the sheep no longer. Those sheep are not their aim."
"Such cheap bluster. Such rough pride. Both prized by the young, I suppose."
"Go! They won't move until you speak. You're my partner - and partners cooperate, do they not?"
"We'll take it from here. The two of you take the gold and go on as planned!"
"Is it really all right?"
"We shall meet at the walls of Ruvinheigen. And we'll all be rich."
"The fortunes of war be with you,"
"You'll need to stay away. If you get close, it could go badly. You understand, I know."
"I won't let you lose,"
"Were you a proper male, I'd at least get a kiss for my trouble here."
"Oh, that's right. Here, take this for me,"
"It is my hope that this will all conclude peacefully, but I don't know how it will go. When we meet up again, it will be cold if I'm naked, and a bit of a problem for you, too, I should think,"
"Let's meet again."
"Holo!"
"Mr. Lawrence, is that you?"
"Mr. Lawrence, are you all right?"
"We heard from Mr. Liebert - we couldn't just stay at the company - so we came out and waited at the edge of the forest. Thank goodness you're-"
"And your things?"
"Over there. The horse, as well."
"I see. Let's take some shelter for a bit."
"I won't ask you not to think badly of us,"
"... So the Remelio Company is betraying me?"
"It's insurance."
"It weighed heavy on us to hear there would be a girl with you, so that's lucky, anyway."
"I know it will sound like an excuse, but we're on the brink here. We have to eliminate any danger we can."
"You can keep the robe."
"Don't think it doesn't wound me that I can't say we'll meet again."
"It's depressing to think about what happens next."
"Hey,"
"C'mon, let us talk. I can't just keep quiet. You're the same, right?"
"But that's the girl this guy had with him. Who cares if he hears-"
"See, look-"
"What if we just tie her up like this poor bastard? The wolves will just finish them off for us."
"Don't be stupid. Who knows what kind of pagan magic she used to get the sheep through that forest unharmed. We could blindfold her, tie both hands, and leave her here, and they'd still survive. And then we'd be the ones in trouble. But... it's depressing, I'll say that. Won't be able to eat for a while if we lay a hand on the girl, that's for sure."
"Shouldn't we finish this guy off?"
"What, you wanna do it?"
"Hey, the less killing the better, as far as I'm concerned."
"I'm with you."
"We've got the horse, so let's go. If we don't hurry, we'll catch it from Mr. Liebert."
"A tearful reunion, eh?"
"You look terrible,"
"We are betrayed."
"I'm not so naive as to think you saw that and fell,"
"I cannot say it didn't occur to me. They were from the company, yes?"
"Honestly, I would've found you soon enough. You didn't have to do this."
"You are a strange one, protecting my clothes with your life."
"There is something I need to say. I must be completely frank,"
"I may have to kill someone,"
"I thought that if this plan didn't go well, I'd no longer be able to travel with you. The thought made me dreadfully lonely. Thus, I bore it. I let things go peaceably, I came along with you quickly, and I put up with things because I thought we'd soon be sipping hot potato soup in front of the fireplace. I am the Wisewolf of Yoitsu, Holo. I can forget the pride of a youngster if need be..."
"let things go peaceably"
"No, listen. That was all well and good. I am Holo the Wisewolf. If I am made to act like a mere dog, I - I shall still not be angry. But what is this? This soaked mouse standing in front of me, face swollen, covered in mud? Has my companion been so foolish as to trip and fall? And with burns on his wrists! Oh, indeed. Before me is a fine fool, who doesn't give a second thought to his own appearance but protects my robe against the rain with his life. A dunce indeed! I've no idea what to do with such unbelievable softheartedness."
"Well, then. I take it we're off to Ruvinheigen?"
"If we go now, we can enter the city under cover of darkness. The master always takes responsibility for betrayal. This is the truth of the world."
"Wait, there's Liebert and Norah,"
"Think it through. Betrayal demands revenge. Sin must have punishment. But plunging in without thinking will give us no satisfaction. We can't be satisfied until we've taken everything from them. Do you not agree? Consider. If we attack the lot that came for you, dealing with the gold afterward becomes difficult. But we'll go first to the master's house and make him good and sorry, then strike at the ones who so happily betrayed you. Then, we have but to butcher the sheep, take the gold, and go wherever we may please. I daresay this is the best plan."
"I feel the same way, but we must first get to Liebert - and quickly."
"You have a better plan?"
"The Remelio Company plans to murder Norah."
"Yes, and those fools planned to kill you as well, yet you lived. She, too, may survive, don't you think?"
"If you go to save her, she will definitely be safe."
"Is that so?"
"You could defeat a hundred armed men in a flash, could you not?"
"That is not the problem."
"I am a wolf. The girl is a shepherd. We are eternal antagonists."
"I know there's nothing in it for you - far from it, in fact. But can I not ask this of you? An innocent person is about to die, and I can't just turn the other way."
"I'll owe you some thanks, of course."
"... What sort of thanks?"
"As long as you don't say anything like 'In exchange for her life,' I'll give you whatever I can,"
"Please. You're the only one."
"Holo..."
"Come now, don't use that voice with me,"
"Here, take this. Also, I suppose I'd best take off my clothes. It would be troublesome to arrange for new ones."
"You'll do it?"
"There is a condition,"
"You'll understand if I don't guarantee the lives of those who bother me."
"Very well. I trust you."
"You've gotten quite clever. Exactly what sort of troublesome fellow am I traveling with?"
"What, no words of admiration yet?"
"It's a magnificent tail,"
"Mm, that was a bit monotone, but I suppose it will do."
"Now, then, be so kind as to close your eyes."
"If you'd flinched, I was thinking of eating you head first."
"Well, it is fairly frightening,"
"Shall I carry you in my mouth or on my back, then?"
"Spare me your mouth, please."
"You might find it surprisingly comfortable."
"I might be tempted by the warmth and find myself in your stomach."
"Hee-hee-hee. Come, on my back now. Grab on to my fur; it won't hurt. Hold on as tightly as you need."
"If you fall, I'll snatch you up in my jaws."
"I'll make sure not to."
"You know-"
"What?"
"I truly hate shepherds."
"Norah knows that whether this job succeeds or fails, she'll have to give up shepherding."
"By way of thanks, you'd best buy me more honeyed peach preserves than I can possibly eat."
"might"
"Hey,"
"We'll be upon them soon. I don't mind a bit if you stay on my back, but you might not like it. I'm going to jump clear over them. I'll crouch down right afterward, so you jump off then."
"Understood."
"If you dillydally, I'll shake you right off."
"Off you go,"
"Leave the rest to me,"
"Protect the sheep and the shepherd!"
"Protect the shepherd! Run! Run!"
"Sh-sh-shepherd! Protect me! Protect me!"
"Shepherd! I'll give you three hundred lumione to protect me!"
"-!"
"Enek, wait!"
"Norah!"
"I'm so glad you're all right!"
"The wolf is Holo. My companion, I mean."
"You didn't kill him?"
"I thought about swallowing him, I'll admit."
"But gold doesn't agree with my stomach."
"Take the gold,"
"I think it was in his coat... Ugh, he's soaked,"
"There it is. The genuine article,"
"Norah,"
"The job's still not done. You're the one that has to get that gold into the city."
"B-but... how are you still alive?"
"save"
"-Urghyaaaaa!"
"Good evening, Mr. Liebert! And how fare you tonight?"
"Wh-wha... Uh? H-how are youuuugghghh!"
"Holo. Honeyed peach preserves."
"Mr. Liebert. Mr. Liebert! Would you be so kind as to explain to Norah how while you were getting dressed you, shall we say, got the buttons wrong, please?"
"Mr. Liebert!"
"It - it wasn't me! It was Remelio's orders. I told him not to do it. I told him betrayal would call down God's wrath. I swear, I was against it-"
"As you can see, this is no ordinary wolf. Think of it as a representative of almighty God. In other words, lies will not avail you,"
"I-I-I, I th-thought, I thought we were paying too much compensation. Remelio, too. At this rate we'd use all the p-profit paying our debts and have nothing to keep. Remelio told me to do something about it. I h-had to. I had no choice. Y-you understand, don't you? After all, we're both merch-"
"I'm nothing like you."
"Ha-ha-ha-ha!"
"So that is how it is. The Remelio Company had planned to kill you, Norah. I swear this to you - they betrayed us."
"B-but, what about the wolves in the forest...?"
"That was something else,"
"I am Holo, the Wisewolf of Yoitsu. What was in that forest was nothing more than a brat whose only redeeming feature was its sense of territory. I've prudence enough to avoid a pointless fight over something like that."
"I don't know why, Miss Holo, but somehow when you say it, I kind of believe you."
"Incidentally, your dog was never smitten with me. He simply realized my true form. I thought I should let you know."
"Wha-?"
"Now then, Norah, back to the issue at hand,"
"We're in the middle of a kind of storm right now. However, by the grace of God, somehow we've recovered the gold. If Liebert is to be believed, it's worth six hundred lumione. However, if we can bring it into Ruvinheigen and sell it to a broker, we should get close to ten times that - six thousand lumione."
"Six thousand is far more than we could possibly take receipt of, and even without facing that danger, we have six hundred in hand right now. However..."
"How... ever?"
"However, while it is true that it's the Remelio Company's fault that this plan has been more eventful than anybody would've liked, it is also true that without their investment, we never would have been able to buy the gold. And if we take the gold and run, they will be left ruined, bankrupt immediately. Thus-"
"Thus, I propose the following."
"Now, hold-"
"Holo. We do not live in a fairy-tale world. We cannot simply take revenge on those who have betrayed us and say, 'The end.' We have to live on after this. And taking revenge for betrayal only invites more revenge."
"Well, then-"
"Are you going to tell me you'd kill the entire ruined company?"
"Um-"
"In the end, I don't want the bread I buy tomorrow to have been paid for in blood. There are many ways to end this, but if we want to have a life tomorrow, we have to choose to do so."
"If it weren't for you, I'd be freezing to death by the forest right now. I'm well aware that if you hadn't been here, all would be lost, and I thank you for hearing my plea. But-"
"Enough. Enough, I say. Ah, my travel companion is tiresome beyond words!"
"Then here's what I'll have you do."
"You may as well! Let me just say this - I'll carry out whatever duties your undoubtedly tiresome plan asks of me, so you may as well ask away."
"Sorry to keep you waiting. Here's what I propose we do."
"I'd like you to decide whether or not to bring the gold into Ruvinheigen."
"Wha-?"
"However, if you bring it into Ruvinheigen, the huge profit will save both us and the Remelio Company."
"Oh."
"On the other hand, if you decide to take it, then all of these fallen men here, along with their families in Ruvinheigen and the other remnants of the company, will all glimpse hell. Some of them will not be spared its wrath. But in their hearts, they will bear a grudge against three demons - that is to say, me, Holo, and you, Norah."
"Of course, if we flee to some foreign land with a foreign tongue, we can live as though nothing happened. But even living without the fear of revenge, suppose you came across a slave with a familiar face being whipped like a workhorse? Would you be able to sleep that night?"
"However, I will have the Remelio Company make amends."
"We're headed there next. For your part, Norah, please make your decision by tomorrow morning. If you decide to bring the gold into Ruvinheigen, we'll meet at the same plaza where we first discussed this. I'll go into the city first, secure a trustworthy butcher, and wait by the eastern gate for one day. If you decide not to bring it in... Hm. Let us meet in Poroson."
"Well then, Norah. We'll meet again,"
"M-Mr. Lawrence!"
"We-we'll meet again!"
"We will,"
"And we'll be rich."
"Well, now."
"What?"
"Might I hear the truth now?"
"Let me keep up the pretense a bit longer."
"Heh-heh. No."
"That's not enough gold."
"Oh ho."
"There is no way that's six hundred lumione. It's a hundred, at best."
"Your share would be used up just paying your debt. If she doesn't smuggle it in, there'll be no profit at all."
"The Remelio Company must be up against the wall. They must have scraped together a hundred lumione hoping just to get by on that. Of course, they knew from the start they'd have to pay us enough to keep our mouths shut, but that's precisely why they got on board the plan with us in the first place."
"Hmph. Still, that was certainly a skillful excuse you gave her. You're like unto a saint."
"It was mostly sincere."
"..."
"Get on."
"What, no more interrogation?"
"I tire of your foolishness."
"Still, we're not just saving the Remelio Company out of charity."
"Oh?"
"No. We're doing it to make more money for ourselves."
"More money, eh? I cannot say I follow you."
"Merchants can convert all sorts of things into money. I have to be of some occasional use."
"I look forward to observing your skill, sir!"
"... Th-there must be some kind of problem. Right? Like when you've forgotten to put salt in the soup."
"I-I don't know what Liebert said. I'm sure it sounded like heaven's own truth, as if he were confessing before an altar. But it was a lie! He lies about everything! I've been thinking about firing him - I swear!"
"Mr. Remelio."
"Y-y-yaaagh!"
"It's safe,"
"The jaws that now hold your head between their teeth are the jaws of truth, my friend. If you lie, they will know. Also, this wolf is hungry from being made to run all night, I hear. If you lie, your head may just be devoured."
"All right, Mr. Remelio. Know that I have not returned to take revenge for your betrayal. I've come to talk business."
"Our negotiations begin now. Feel free to lie in your interest as much as you wish. However, the wolf here is far more discerning than I, and can see the hidden meaning behind your every word. If you do anything clumsy, you may wind up a head shorter. Are we clear?"
"Then let's begin,"
"In the event that we succeed in the gold smuggling, might I ask you to purchase it from us at five hundred lumione?"
"We are still accomplices to smuggling. Surely you didn't think we'd come back to take revenge on you after making off with the gold?"
"Well, I won't say there's no chance of that, but no, I don't think so. But if we don't talk about what to do when we succeed - well, we might wind up disagreeing, mightn't we?"
"So, I'll say it again. Might I ask you to purchase the gold from us at five hundred lumione?"
"I can't possibly do-"
"Of course, I don't expect it all in cash up front. Let's see. Perhaps you could write me an IOU?"
"F-five hundred, that's simply-"
"Too much? Well, hmm. In that case, I'll just take whatever you've hidden away here and sell the gold to someone else."
"Also, I'll let that demon there have your life."
"You see, Mr. Remelio, I don't think it's fair to lose everything because of a single failure. We can't perfectly predict every price drop, can we? So I want to give you another chance. But I want you to be grateful for it, and I want that to take the form of five hundred lumione. You've built a wonderful company with a magnificent loading dock in a city like this. If you think in terms of decades, surely five hundred is a bargain."
"So you'll write the note, then? Holo-"
"The terms will be yearly installments over ten years. The first will be ten lumione. The last will be one hundred. You understand, yes?"
"You can write it out at that desk."
"S-so, should this be payable to..."
"The Rowen Trade Guild."
"You're a formidable man."
"Not as formidable as the wolf,"
"Now, all we need to do is pray the smuggling succeeds."
"Welcome."
"Ho there."
"Come, let's go."
"Come again,"
"Here. Bread,"
"Also, this."
"'Tis good for what ails you."
"Now, then,"
"I have two questions to put to you."
"How far do you trust that girl?"
"I don't know how far I trust her,"
"However, I do know that if Norah were to take the gold and disappear somewhere, she would be easily followed. I don't trust her enough to think that would happen and still have handed her the gold."
"Unless she travels a significant distance, no one will buy it up at a reasonable price, and tales of a shepherdess just happening to sell off gold are rare enough to travel far and wide. She would be easy to follow."
"I see. I suppose that is the size of it, then."
"And the other question?"
"Whatever it is, I'll answer it. I owe you a huge debt, after all."
"Are you not going to ask?"
"Hm?"
"Do- do you remember..."
"When I was facing the dog and the girl... whose name did you call out?"
"The blood was rushing in my head, and I couldn't hear. But it's been gnawing at me. I am quite sure you called someone's name. Do you remember?"
"I called your name."
"That is a lie."
"It is. The truth is I don't remember. However-"
"-In those circumstances, I certainly think I would've called your name,"
"Time was of the essence. I'm sure I would've unconsciously chosen to call your name. After all-"
"After all, it's one letter shorter."
"Also, if I'd shouted 'Norah' even hastily, you'd be able to tell. But Holo takes but a moment to say - it would be easy to miss with blood 262/266 roaring through your head. What do you think? Quite a persuasive argument-"
"Shut up."
"So you called my name because it was shorter? Dunce! Fool!"
"It's infuriating that you would even think that!"
"Just-"
"-call it out,"
"Achoo!"
"Holo."
"Holo really is easier to call."
"You dunce."