
"Hare... catfish... roasted chestnuts... sausage..."
"... I want to eat something like that myself, once... just once,"
"If my memory is to be trusted, I'm quite sure I treated you to a whole roasted piglet at one point."
"Such a thing would fill my belly for only so long."
"... Perhaps, but there's no way you could eat an entire roast pig."
"That is not what I am saying,"
"Then what?"
"You don't get it? You're a merchant, yet you don't understand the wishes of another?"
"H-hang on."
"Ah."
"Oh?"
"I suppose you didn't get enough of the skin, then?"
"... Wha...?"
"It's true, there's less of it on a piglet. Still, well-roasted pork skin... it's a luxury, that's for certain. It's crunchy, and when eaten with the meat, the oil spreads out in your mouth, and it's even better with a good amount of salt..."
"Fwa!"
"What, that wasn't it?"
"Not even close. Still..."
"That does sound rather tasty..."
"Well, you can't get the skin unless you order a whole roast pig, and even with the two of us eating, too much meat would go to waste. I've even heard of nobles eating nothing but the skin and throwing the meat away, but..."
"Oh ho."
"So,"
"What could it be, then? You're not satisfied with a piglet, which means..."
"Mm?"
"It's not the skin, right? Sausage, then? Or boiled liver? That's not my favorite, but liver can be quite popular."
"Fool,"
"You truly are a fool."
"I don't think someone who drools at every mention of food should be talking..."
"Even I don't have such a large stomach. A piglet is more than enough for me,"
"So you want us to go together and have a meal we can't possibly finish, is that it?"
"You see, then?"
"..."
"My thanks for the meal!"
"You're quite welcome,"
"What? No rooms?"
"There have just been so many people recently. My apologies, truly..."
"So it'll be like this at the other inns, too?"
"Reckon it will. Times like this, it makes me wish the guild would loosen their rules a bit, but..."
"If you'd like some food, that much I can manage,"
"We'll come again later."
"They'll be ready to eat in a week, I hear,"
"Ah, you're talking about what the young master of the Ohm Company said? Still, I'm surprised the boss would accept the work of someone like that. And then to order us to put it on the bread we bake? Absurd, I say!"
"Now, now. He pays us well and buys up the finest wheat bread we can bake. Even you like kneading the best wheat flour there is sometimes, eh?"
"Aye, I suppose... still..."
"Our bread's at its tastiest when eaten alone! It's a mistake to put such stuff on it. And anyway, it's too expensive. Do the things turn into gold when preserved in honey? It's absurd!"
"Ha-ha. You're just complaining because you can't afford it yourself?"
"L-like hell I am! I've no interest in the stuff! Honeyed peach preserves? Bah!"
"S-seems like it'll be cold tonight,"
"... I suppose it can't be helped. Let's visit the apothecary and see if we can't find something to warm ourselves."
"Welcome,"
"Are you looking for anything?"
"Something to warm us a bit. Ginger, perhaps, or..."
"Ginger's on that shelf."
"That'll be ten ryut."
"Ah, you've a good eye for quality. This year's peaches were very sweet and firm as well. The honey is the finest from Baron Ludinhild's forest. One lumione per fruit, and I've had many customers! Only three left, in fact. How about it?"
"Ha-ha. Too much for me."
"Is that so? Well, come again if you change your mind."
"..."
"Mm? Whatever is the matter?"
"N-nothing..."
"I see. Well, hurry up and get on, then. Your seat's the farther one, is it not?"
"Er, yes..."
"..."
"Business is... good."
"Let's drop by that trading company."
"... Mm. Huh?"
"... What is this?"
"It seems to be materials for building some sort of... something. A crow's nest? No, this is..."
"Well, then,"
"Hello, there. I've heard you're short-handed, so I've brought my vehicle."
"Ah, uh, yes. We've been waiting. Just take the goods straightaway. Which wagon's yours?"
"What, that?"
"I was thinking it would be best to load it as heavily as possible,"
"Mmm, it'll be slow, though... who recommended you to us? Why, I ought to... ah, well. Fine, load up what you can and leave. Quick about it, now."
"Er, the work came up so suddenly I didn't catch the details. Who shall I take payment from? And what's the destination?"
"Ask that fellow over there,"
"Yes, sir, right away, sir,"
"Excuse me,"
"... Yes?"
"The boss over there said that I could ask you about where these goods go and my wages as well."
"Ah, er... yes, quite. Well..."
"The destination is... Do you know Le Houaix? There are signs pointing the way, so you should be fine, but... take... those goods there. Any of those, as much as you can carry."
"And my wages?"
"Wages? Ah, of course... Er... There are labels on the goods, so... just bring those back. Each one should exchange for about... a trenni... or so..."
"Hey, you there, wake up. Hey!"
"Huh, whuh...?"
"This job came up so suddenly I haven't a place to stay. Can I rent a room here at this company?"
"The maid... is in the rear, so... ask her. You can probably get... some food, too..."
"My thanks."
"I've found us a room."
"I've got a job to do."
"A job? You-"
"They'll probably be at it all night, so it might be noisy."
"This'll earn us a bit of money. And a room, but..."
"We'll worry about tomorrow when it comes. For tonight, at least, let's... H-hey!"
"What a bother,"
"Truly, such a foolish male you are,"
"Please, no more."
"Well, isn't she the elegant one,"
"There are two left, he said."
"One sold, and another will probably sell soon, he said."
"You went back there just to check on them?"
"Will it be all right, I wonder?"
"At one lumione, they're not asking a price that most people can easily pay, and people who can easily pay that much aren't exactly common."
"Is that so. They're safe, then, no?"
"After all, you must have earned quite a lot."
"So tomorrow, then? Or are you back because you've earned enough already? You've made seven loads so far. That's got to amount to a goodly sum."
"Er, no, that only comes to seven silver pieces, so..."
"Seven? Oh ho. After all that haste, how long is it going to take you to earn a full lumione, then?"
"ah"
"... Were you..."
"Uh, never mind,"
"There are places on the road to the village where wild dogs have started to appear. It'll be dangerous come nightfall. So if you wouldn't mind..."
"... I would very much appreciate your help."
"Must I?"
"I need this favor of you,"
"Very well, I suppose,"
"Thank you!"
"Aye,"
"Just what are you doing?"
"Uhn?"
"Come, now that I'm coming along there's no need for rest. We haven't any time for dawdling."
"Come, let us go,"
"Please, have some mercy, I'm not a cart horse-"
"Aye. That's true."
"Heh. Did you suppose I was angry?"
"You imagine that resting now will let you earn more efficiently at night, when traffic is lighter?"
"And that is why you are a fool, then."
"You carried loads all night, napped in the driver's seat, left without even having breakfast with me, worked until just now, and made - what, seven pieces?"
"... That's right."
"I remember well enough that there are thirty-five trenni to a lumione, which leaves how much time until you've made enough to buy the honeyed peach preserves?"
"Four days."
"Mm. Too much time. And moreover"
"the loading dock is a madhouse. Do you suppose you're the only one who's had the notion to give up, rest, and return in the evening?"
"Is everybody else thinking the same thing...?"
"Aye. It'll be just as bad come night. The dockhands themselves need rest, too. And if you're already so profoundly exhausted, consider five days of this? No doubt you'll need more rest, and it will be more like seven or eight."
"What should we do?"
"First, pray the honeyed peach preserves don't sell."
"And next?"
"Think of a different business."
"... A different...?"
"I've heard the chatter here. If you were going to use me to scatter the wild dogs anyway, there's a much better way to make money. You see..."
"Ah, I've been waiting! You got them?"
"Aye, and you?"
"Everything's ready. Honestly, I thought you were nothing more than other travelers when you came knocking on my door so early this morning - never thought you'd ask for such work."
"I hear you went to the bakers with your request last night. Reckon any craftsman that ends up rising earlier than a priest'll be none too happy about it!"
"That'll be enough for fifty people all together. When I sent the lads to the butchers', he wanted to know just how many people were staying at my place!"
"I truly appreciate it on such short notice. My thanks,"
"It's nothing. The guild dictates how much money we can make with its rules - if this helps me make a little more, it's a cheap favor indeed."
"Still, to take the money, even with this much preparation... well,"
"Will you really be all right?"
"The road to Le Houaix cuts right alongside the forest."
"When you say the forest, you're talking about the wolves and wild dogs, I suppose?"
"That's right. The Ohm Company built that road in a hurry to take materials to Le Houaix. All the dogs there came from the city, so they've no fear of humans. To be honest, it seems dangerous to carry something that smells so delicious right through that. I'll bet there 47/193 were others who thought to do the same thing but gave up, owing to the danger and all."
"Ha-ha. It'll be all right,"
"They put a goddess of good fortune on the prow of a ship to guard against sea devils and disasters. She's mine."
"Oh ho... but still, against those dogs?"
"May God's blessing go with you,"
"My thanks, truly. Oh, and-"
"Yes?"
"I may come again in the evening for the same order."
"My inn's full up, so I've plenty of help. The guild rules don't say anything about putting your guests to work!"
"We'll be off, then."
"And good travels to you!"
"Now then, are you prepared for this?"
"I'm the faster one, you know. A horse's speed is nothing to mine."
"Yes, but that's when you're on your own feet."
"Well, I'd best hold on tight, then, hadn't I? Just as you always do - desperately, trying to keep from crying."
"Come on, I don't cry..."
"Heh-heh-heh."
"I won't stop even if you do cry."
"As though I'd-!"
"Hey, you there! Don't crowd! Line up properly!"
"My comrades have been toiling away on empty stomachs,"
"Why, aren't you making a cunning face?"
"I am a merchant, after all. Right,"
"I've enough left for twenty men, say. Will that do?"
"What, that all? It won't be near enough!"
"Two pieces of bread here, please!"
"I've brought the bread!"
"Well, I think we've about made the rounds."
"I'd think so. Dividing the meat and bread in half we managed to get to most everybody."
"I'd like to head straight back to the village, put in another order, and see if we can't double our business by noon tomorrow."
"Mm. Still, how much did we make in the end?"
"Well, now... wait just a moment..."
"Around four trenni at best, after we change the money."
"Only four? But we sold so much!"
"I'd feel better pushing prices higher if we were selling to greedy merchants, but the craftsmen aren't making that much. So that's how it is."
"Still, we'll bring double the food tomorrow and turn double the profit. If we make arrangements ahead, we'll be able to sell at night, too, which will double our profit again. We'll have those honeyed peach preserves before you know it."
"What is it?"
"Oh, nothing,"
"I saved this. Thought we could eat it on the way back."
"Still, you."
"What?"
"You seem to have missed the crucial point again."
"The crucial point?"
"Mm. If you were planning all along to reveal this plan, you should've used nicer meat. This meat is merely adequate."
"I hadn't noticed,"
"I understand the carpenters' grumbling all too well now. This isn't nearly enough."
"You're certainly full of complaints. When I was just starting out, I'd eat buds and fruit seeds just to avoid starvation."
"And you're certainly full of elderly scolding,"
"It's only reasonable to want to eat more and tastier food. Just as trees wish to grow up and out."
"So you were that hungry, eh?"
"God says to share what you have, after all."
"Mmph... Sometimes even you... mm... manage to act like a proper male."
"Still, is this truly all right?"
"Sure, it's fine."
"Mm. Well, in that case..."
"I've already eaten quite enough."
"What's the matter?"
"Oh, you've already eaten, have you? And here I thought you were being considerate for once..."
"Isn't this the time to put what you said before into action?"
"... Huh? Me? What are you..."
"For tasty food, double the money. To be full, double the amount. So what do you do to double the pleasure of a meal?"
"You add a companion to dine with. Just watching you enjoy the bread is satisfaction enough for me."
"Do you suppose I could eat the whole loaf after hearing such a thing?"
"'Twould be an annoyance indeed, to let you have all the fun of indulging."
"Or do you only care about yourself?"
"My thanks."
"Mm."
"... 'Tis your coin. Spend it as you will."
"Does it bother you?"
"Not particularly,"
"It's not such a great distance to the next town, and it shouldn't be too cold. You can manage a couple of days of cold food, can't you?"
"I told you, spend it as you will."
"..."
"So, what'll it be, sir? I can't have you loitering around my shop all day."
"My apologies. I'll come again."
"Come anytime,"
"Food next, aye? Hurry, let us go!"
"'Tis written all over your face, you know,"
"The next town will be bigger, I hear. I've no intention of insisting on luxury here."
"Which means you'll be insisting on luxury in the next town."
"Well, then, I'll gladly accept your thrift."
"Mm."
"Ah, pardon me - might I have the change in those coppers there instead?"
"Those? Oh, the schmie coppers? Passing through the northern forest, are you?"
"Yes. There's a logging village on the way, if I remember right."
"It's probably too small to even be called a village, but this time of year there'll be more people there, just trying to finish their work before the snows come. Anyhow, this is the exchange rate."
"You merchants are a troublesome lot,"
"Not so troublesome as you. Now then, we'll see to repairing the wagon and gathering some talk about the road ahead..."
"Yes, and dinner, too."
"Mm. Nothing like a tavern for hearing about travel conditions. 'Tis a necessary thing."
"How many times do you suppose I've carried a certain wisewolf away after she's eaten and drunk too much, hmm?"
"Ungh..."
"You're lucky I don't make a hobby of usury, else you wouldn't even have the clothes on your back."
"Honestly,"
"Now then."
"So you're collecting those now, are you?"
"I see you've finally recognized how wonderful I am, then. Mm. Aye, 'tis well."
"Yes, yes, fine. Hey, look out-!"
"So, what - you need water?"
"Mm... my throat burns..."
"Whew..."
"Feel better?"
"Mm... 'Twas awfully strong wine, I think. My throat is yet dry,"
"Even if you were to order finer wine, it would be a waste if you spilled it like that,"
"Come, if you're feeling better, then move aside. It's dark, and I need to light a candle."
"What are you doing? Are you insinuating something, huh?"
"What, do you want me to tell you it must be your conscience panging that makes you think so?"
"Hmph. Well, aren't I a good-for-nothing glutton."
"We'll be passing through a village of woodcutters tomorrow. These are to sell there."
"... Sell?"
"That's right. Sell."
"But... this is currency, is it not?"
"You can sell currency. In the old days... maybe not as old as you, but still old, coins were sold by smiths, who were side by side with the money changers."
"Coins issued by legendary kings or coins circulated near abbeys where saints renowned for their healing powers lived. Coins with holes in them such that they can be strung and worn about the neck are common, too. I've even heard of coins being used as hilts on swords."
"That's a bit small for that - coins made to wear tend to be larger. For you... one about this size would be good, I think."
"Heh. So, might we put a hole in this?"
"If we do that, it'll be useless as currency. "Hmph."
"You've got that precious wheat about your neck anyway, don't you? You can't wear a coin with that."
"Huh?"
"There's a scripture that prohibits usury. It says the practice is like sowing coins into a field."
"... What does that mean?"
"Coins will not send up shoots, nor blossom into flowers. Moreover, they're metal, so they'll poison the soil and make everything else planted there wither. In other words, it prohibits collecting interest and speaks to the evil of money."
"Mm."
"I can't have the wheat withering, can I?"
"So why will we be able to sell these coins in particular, then?"
"These? Well..."
"The wolf device on them, you see."
"Oh? Why's that, I suppose. It does seem quite clever."
"Come, you. What is it?"
"Courage, perhaps? Or... good fortune? No, this is wolves like me, so..."
"Hmm. And didn't you say that you'll be able to sell them in a woodcutters' village?"
"Y-yes, that's right."
"Which means..."
"... Mm. Well, I figured 'twas something of the sort,"
"I mean, look, there are bandit ward coins, too, so-"
"Come, you,"
"If you care so much, 'twill only make me feel lonelier,"
"Hey - that's right. Of course,"
"Come to think of it, with you along, don't you suppose we could make a killing on wolf wards?"
"So,"
"What did you have in mind?"
"Well, say..."
"Maybe one could make some noise that would drive them away...?"
"Sometimes high-pitched noises are unpleasant for us... but that's just as likely to attract their attention as it is to drive wolves away."
"What about prayers to God, then?"
"Aye, surely, if that god will give them food every day."
"What about the talk that they can't stand the smell of metal?"
"Metal..."
"That might have some effect."
"So a leaden apron might work, then?"
"Hmmm."
"I've often heard that knights or mercenaries wearing armor are difficult to attack."
"That's because of the long spears they carry, though, aye? Those are troublesome even for me. But swords - sometimes I don't even notice if they're carrying swords before I leap."
"What about something that simply smells bad?"
"Aye. Herbs often have a bitter scent. That might be worst of all."
"Shall we go out? You might walk off a bit of that wine."
"Mm. Right now?"
"Aye, why not?"
"Right."
"But let's not hurry, eh?"
"..."
"If anything, I imagine she was greeting us thanks to your drinking habits,"
"Oh ho. Then she ought to have waved an empty glass instead of her hand."
"Does that mean I should've waved my lightened coin purse?"
"Heh-heh. Yes, just so."
"Customers, at this hour? I was just about to close up shop."
"Could we browse just a bit?"
"So long as you aren't long,"
"Thank you very much,"
"He was looking at me as he said that."
"He probably thinks I'm some fool merchant a town girl has tricked into buying a scented sachet or some such thing."
"Even if it smells good, it still leaves your belly empty."
"I figured you'd say that."
"Good for putting on tough meat. Good for putting in bad wine. Good for putting on burnt bread."
"I've a favor to ask, if you wouldn't mind."
"This one and this one. Also this and this. Here, too - lately there are rumors of fakes circulating. I've been doing an apothecary's work for thirty years, but sometimes even I find myself fooled by the fakes. I 77/193 hear sometimes they train dogs to sniff out the scents nearer the fakes, but... would you consider lending me your nose?"
"This girl once worked in a noble house, whose mistress was a great lover of spices. She naturally developed quite a sense for them working there, you see, and that's why I keep her near."
"Do not worry,"
"If she can tell the fakes from the genuine article, I'd be prepared to thank her appropriately."
"Well then, Holo."
"Er... hmm... good wheat bread, then."
"Ah,"
"What makes you say that?"
"Oh, nothing. I just remembered something I need to do. I'll be right back - just stay here."
"Well, well! Your girl's nose is truly a wonder. Dunking the fake in wine soon revealed the lie! I very nearly took a terrible loss,"
"I'm pleased to hear it. I see you've added wine to her payment."
"It's nothing compared with the loss I would've suffered. And of course, my consideration will be a generous one,"
"You've drunk too much."
"Hmm? I've finished a hard day's work! And unlike a certain someone who did nothing but tuck the profit away in their coin purse, I'm quite tired."
"Given that, I suppose you weren't able to do what we originally came here to do?"
"Searching for a scent that wolves don't like means essentially that I have to put my nose to things I myself hate. Why must I do such a thing, pray tell?"
"My wine?"
"forgotten."
"Is this...?"
"I can spare a single silver piece. And a dignified image like this one suits you."
"Still,"
"if I wear something like this, it might well keep me from encountering my kind during our travels."
"Then wear it only when we're in a town."
"What do you mean by that?"
"To keep away the wolves of the towns."
"Bah-hah-hah-hah. Oh, you're a fool, you are. A grand fool."
"Not bad, eh?"
"Keh-heh-heh!"
"That was the foulest one today."
"Foul enough to keep wolves from bothering us?"
"Oh, that's right. If it was truly so foul..."
"Hmm?"
"... Then you shouldn't mind the burning peat so much anymore, eh?"
"I concede it! You win."
"Playtime's over!"
"Now then,"
"Come now, how long must we stay here?"
"Mm... oh, look at the hour."
"Are you finished with your walk?"
"I suppose 'twould have made you uneasy if I'd gone too far."
"No matter how far you might roam, you'd always come back as soon as your belly was empty,"
"Well, then, I'll harness the horse and we'll be on our way."
"Fool."
"He's but a sheep,"
"Perhaps I'm the fool, after all,"
"What's that?"
"What is this?"
"Easy, easy!"
"Come, don't buck like that! Yes, fine, I see how it is... there we go."
"Honestly... well, then, let's be off. Er... what is it?"
"Ooh-hu-hu-hu,"
"Oh, that's right. There was something I wanted to ask you about,"
"What say you? Not bad, eh?"
"It's, er, nice, but..."
"Where did you get that?"
"Hmm? I picked it up over yonder."
"Ah,"
"So, what was it you wished to ask me?"
"Ahem. Er, no, it's not anything of importance, but..."
"The town we were in until yesterday - about the quality of the furs there..."
"Mm."
"Mm."
"Yes! I knew it!"
"... What is it?"
"There's a gap in the marketplace. We can make some real money!"
"You'll be despised if you bring out a mountain of small coins to pay for an expensive item, and if you try to buy a small thing with a highvalue coin, it's the same thing. So people use coins appropriate for the various goods they're buying. But sometimes furs are simply exchanged for furs, and the same goes for coins. So-"
"So in all that exchange, sometimes there are places where they aren't equivalent, aye?"
"That's right. I've calculated it over and over, and there's no mistaking it. By doing nothing more than buying and selling in town, we can make twenty, maybe even thirty percent. It's a grand opportunity!"
"Now then, would you go and wait for me in the tavern?"
"Wha... ?"
"I'll be going to shops all over the town. With these crowds, I think you'd hate being dragged this way and that, wouldn't you?"
"... Wouldn't you?"
"Aye, I suppose not,"
"Still, I don't suppose you'll have me wait there without any means,"
"Don't use it all."
"God's blessing be upon you."
"I love the feeling of outsmarting everyone around me!"
"Just so long as you aren't caught at it."
"I'll be long gone before anyone catches me."
"Success!"
"Though some others caught on to what I was doing, so the profit dropped a bit. We all pulled just before we would've been ruined, though."
"I'd say we should drink a toast, but you're a bit too drunk for that,"
"Let's have some tastier wine tomorrow. We'll pass tonight at an inn. Ah, it's nice to make money,"
"We ought to retire for the evening. Can you walk?"
"Steady now. We only have to go as far as the inn."
"What do you mean you can't buy these pelts?!"
"I mean we can't buy them. We've gotten word from the guild that someone's been going around using furs as part of some strange scheme. We can't buy any more until we hear more."
"What nonsense is that?!"
"That was close,"
"Call out the guild chief!"
"Let's go."
"Look! They carry the seal of Dene Allbrook. What nonsense is this, that you can't buy them?"
"trust."
"Um, look-"
"So, then, how fine is the traveling merchant I've wrapped about my arm?"
"Wait, you-"
"You earned a tidy sum, didn't you? I cannot wait to see what wine you will treat me to in celebration!"
"Now all we have to do is get moving."
"master."
"My nose was just itchy..."
"Still."
"I'm still not used to not hearing the sheep bleating when I wake up."
"The shepherd's life was hard, but... now that I don't have to do it anymore, I do feel a bit lonely."
"Mm... sorry. I'm fine."
"Well, shall we break our fast, then? Just a bit - I splurged a bit in the last town,"
"Come, Enek. Don't be naughty."
"But look how white the bread is!"
"It's easier not having the sheep around, but it would be nice to stay somewhere with a roof soon."
"But I think we'll be there today or maybe tomorrow,"
"Anyway, what do you think about the town rumors, Enek?"
"You're right. After all, they say employers pay only for danger or toil."
"They say half the people in town have died from illness."
"Still, for half the town to have died, I wonder if the Church's prayers had no effect..."
"Enek!"
"-!"
"Sorry for startling you,"
"I do feel a bit badly for the sheep, but that was fun."
"Mm... Enek?"
"A wolf?"
"No, not wolves..."
"Bandits?"
"..."
"Wh-what'll we do?"
"Ah-!"
"Run, please!"
"Enek!"
"Help! Heeelp!"
"Hey, what happened?"
"Ooh... Ugh... What calamity has happened here..."
"I'm so glad you're safe!"
"Is that all the bandits?"
"There were three bandits in all..."
"So there's one more?"
"Oh God, we thank thee for this small blessing..."
"Look up, please. You are verily an angel sent by God."
"No, not at all... Anyway, it's much more thanks to Enek than me."
"Ah, quite right. So he's called Enek, is he? Truly, I owe you my life."
"Still, the test God has given me is terribly heavy..."
"And the other people in the inn, were they...?"
"No... this place was empty. We had come to borrow a stable and pass the night, but the bandits seemed to be waiting for that. But... oh, how terrible they were, these pagan men!"
"... You mean, their arrowhead amulets?"
"So you noticed, did you? That's right. They're descended from the sorcerers who still practice their dark arts in the eastern mountains. They were waiting for us to sleep. The three men they killed were mercenaries I'd hired as travel guards. They were quick and brave and tried to protect us, but were unequal to the task..."
"But I cannot abandon my journey here. I must... press on,"
"What is your destination?"
"My apologies. My destination was..."
"... Kuskov."
"Huh?"
"Are you familiar with it? It is a town beset by plague, without God's teachings or guidance; a town suffering in darkness."
"Y-yes. We were on our way there ourselves."
"Oh!"
"This must be God's will... though it cannot but pain me to say so. Might I ask you to hear this one request of a servant of God?"
"Yes, anything."
"Would you escort us to Kuskov?"
"I see. So you're heading to Kuskov to become a crafter..."
"Yes. I got word about the town from traveling merchants."
"Ah, I see. I should think it would require a great deal of courage to journey all the way to Kuskov... but please excuse my rudeness - you clearly posses a great measure of bravery and righteousness."
"No, in truth I'm terrified, but... it's a dream I was sure I could never reach, so now that I have this chance..."
"Your dream, eh? It's true one needs hopes and dreams in order to face danger. You have nothing to be ashamed of."
"I, too, am making for Kuskov in service of a dream of sorts. When the plague came, all of God's servants were called to heaven, and none remained to light candles anew. So we decided to come, to serve as lamps for those trembling in the darkness."
"I see..."
"I began this journey ready to face any horror in that town, but I never thought the horrors would begin while my journey was not yet over."
"As you can see, I am nothing more than a humble bishop, and I cannot give you anything of worth in return for your aid. But I would very much like to do what I can."
"Oh no, you needn't-"
"I very nearly lost my life at the hands and blades of those men. You saved me, even as I was on my way to bring aid to those waiting in the darkness for God's light. It is a thing heavy with import, and I hope you'll at least allow me to repay the actions of your brave friend."
"You mean... Enek?"
"God made this world and all things in it. Humans and all other things are the same in God's eyes. Thus, I feel it only right to give names to the blades of grass, show kindness to horses and birds alike, and to properly honor those who show such noble bravery."
"When we arrive in Kuskov, I, Giuseppe Ozenstein, in the name of God, will confer upon the noble Enek the title of Knight of the Church."
"And of course, I'd like to show you some appreciation, too,"
"E-er, if you please..."
"Yes, my child?"
"Er, that is, I have a favor to ask..."
"What is that?"
"Would you introduce us as merely your followers, please...?"
"That's..."
"It gives me great pleasure to see you living so faithfully by God's word. Courage and modesty are rarely seen together. I shall honor your request. But neither God nor I shall forget to whom we owe thanks."
"Now then,"
"My name is Tory Ion Kuskov Careca. I represent the Kuskov Disaster Council. In God's name, we welcome you to our town."
"My apologies for remaining on my horse. We have received the letter the blessed town of Kuskov sent seeking the light of God's holy candle. God has not abandoned you. Though my power is weak, God's is great. Be at peace. Beginning today, yea in this very hour, God's light will surely return to this town."
"You must be tired, Bishop. You and your companion should rest yourselves tonight..."
"Bishop, you look unwell..."
"Care for this one before me, if you would,"
"Someone! Help me treat him!"
"Let's try to stay out of the way,"
"What's the matter?"
"I don't suppose you're waiting for a feast to be laid out to thank us, hmm?"
"I was waiting for it a bit, too."
"Not enough, is it?"
"They say we needn't worry about the bill for room and board."
"Though I heard them saying in the kitchen they'd give us rye bread for dinner,"
"The town's in a bad spot, after all. This might really be the last of the good bread they have."
"Hey!"
"Now then."
"We should visit the church first and then maybe the trading house."
"Mm... it will be all right,"
"It's fine, it's fine! Come now."
"... I'm sorry, that was a lie. To be honest, I'm very worried."
"Still,"
"We must keep moving forward."
"Look at all the people,"
"I'd feel bad imposing. We'll come later."
"trade house,"
"letter of introduction"
"Ah, welco-"
"How might I help you?"
"The black-furred fellow's your companion, I trust?"
"Oh yes, er..."
"Oh, it's no trouble. I remember now. You arrived in the town yesterday, did you not? It's dangerous for a woman to travel alone, after all. That fellow might be more trustworthy than a hastily hired guard, truly,"
"I asked because dogs aren't regarded particularly auspiciously in this town at the moment."
"So, then, might I ask what brings a traveler like you to this trade house?"
"Ah, this is... Ah, you're from Ruvinheigen? That's quite a long ways away, indeed."
"I was in the care of a trader named Jakob."
"I see. Well, I'll do what I can not to be bested by that bearded old man, eh?"
"Ahem. Welcome to the Kuskov branch of the Rowen Trade Guild. My name is Aman Guwingdott. I shall do what I can to assist you, such that your memories of this town are good ones, and the name of the Rowen Trade Guild might continue to brightly shine."
"Now then, Miss Norah, you wish to become a seamstress?"
"Yes. I have heard that this town is shorthanded right now."
"Indeed, that's certainly true. This plague is not enough to crush Kuskov. It will surely recover."
"However, your timing may not be ideal."
"... What do you mean?"
"Yes, well, the people of Kuskov certainly ought to be grateful that you've braved the plague to come, but..."
"While the plague is lifting from this town, it's still in a wretched state, as you can plainly see. Commerce here has been dealt a terrible blow and is still in a very bad way. Far from needing new craftsmen, the ones that are already here find themselves leaving town to find work. It's good that you came to call, though, I believe. The town will surely recover, and when it does, there will be a need for workers."
"A seamstress, you said? I'll write a letter of introduction to the head of the clothiers' guild, then. It's the very least I can do."
"Perhaps... they're out,"
"I suppose there's nothing to be done about it,"
"Enek!"
"Wait, please!"
"We are merely travelers, and this dog is my companion!"
"..."
"I wish to speak with the master of the clothiers' guild-"
"So you're the 'girl who brought the lamp,' are you...?"
"Are you coming in?"
"I am the master of this guild."
"... So, what is your business here?"
"Hmph. A seamstress, eh?"
"I-if I might be so bold,"
"pathos."
"... Be my guest."
"Please, ma'am! I've got a bit of an eye for wool, at least, so... er...?"
"Like I said, be my guest,"
"So?"
"Ah... no... er..."
"What? You want a test, then?"
"By all means, go right ahead. Cut cloth, sew seams, thread needles. You could even ready the dye for fur treatment. Shall I see if you have the skill to become a member of the Clothiers' Guild of Kuskov? I, Guild Chief Ars Vidt?"
"Sadly, we have no materials with which to work. Oh, certainly, if you want broken buttons, fraying thread, and bent, rusted needles, we've plenty of those. Though we can't test you with those, can we? So what do you suppose we should do, hmm?"
"I-if it's money, I have-"
"Money! Hah! You suppose what you need can be bought with money? I suppose so! But listen, you - if all you need is beautiful buttons, beautiful cloth, and beautiful needles, you can have all of that without a single coin!"
"Just turn the scriptures upside down and curse the name of God; then dig up the graves of the dead and scavenge their corpses!"
"But if you have money, how about it? You might at least pay the guild membership fee, eh?"
"Come... you have money, don't you?"
"Ars! Ars Vidt!"
"Ars! I know you're in there! The stock purchase advances, get them together and-"
"Whoops-"
"... Enek,"
"I'm... awful, aren't I."
"Half the town died in the plague, after all."
"..."
"I suppose I can't become a merchant."
"So many people died... and I was thinking only of myself."
"Mm... Enek?"
"I'm fine... I'm fine, mm... Eek, that tickles... Hey, you!"
"We can't stop. Can we?"
"Let's go see the bishop."
"Besides, giving our confession to a priest might do us some good, eh?"
"Come, don't give me that look! Playtime is over!"
"I hope the bishop is all right,"
"Ah, you're the girl..."
"Er, I thought I might ask after the condition of the bishop."
"Ah, I see. He's calmed now and is sleeping. Despite that terrible wound, he was up offering prayers until just a moment ago."
"Was the wound so very bad, then?"
"It was. When we were awaked and rushed here, we thought it wasn't too bad at first, but at his age... Still, the bishop has the protection of God, so he'll surely recover soon."
"And, er... what of the other man?"
"The wound to his head was not so very great a thing. There was a lot of blood from his head and nose, though, so it looked worse than it was. He still hasn't woken up, but his color is good, so I think he'll be awake soon."
"Might I be able to visit the both of them?"
"Hmm? Oh, certainly. The bishop for his part has been unmovable from his holy duties, but still asked after you several times,"
"And your black knight here, too."
"Enek, a knight... I don't think..."
"Not at all! It's said that the actions of this little black knight of yours were very important in bringing the light of hope back to our town. The same is said for the young angel traveling with him, of course."
"Angel? Oh... n-no, I'm not an..."
"Ha-ha-ha! See, even your little knight agrees there's no cause for such humility."
"..."
"Anyhow, feel free to go have a look at the bishop's sleeping face. They've both got rather beatific sleeping faces, you might know."
"Right this way, then."
"In here,"
"... It's only been a day, and he's so-"
"thin."
"... And may the blessing of God be upon you,"
"Ah, so you're from Ruvinheigen, eh? ... Where is that, incidentally?"
"I've heard of the place! They say the cathedral there is lit all night long thanks to God."
"Yes, yes! And I've heard they tan most of their leather there on tanning stones of gold."
"Gold?! Well, that's Ruvinheigen for you. Where was it again...?"
"Didn't Father Nico say the cathedral in the holy city of Ruvinheigen reaches all the way to the heavens?"
"He did, he did. He said the cathedral was so tall, his prayers were always being interrupted by angels passing by the windows!"
"I wonder how it really is?"
"I suppose... that might be true."
"Indeed! I remember Father Nico saying he wanted to see Ruvinheigen one more time before he died."
"But still, Bishop Giuseppe has been there many times himself, and this time passed through it on his way to this very town. And it was Miss Norah, who once worked at the Ruvinheigen Church, who led him here. I can't help but suppose that God heard Father Nico's prayers,"
"Thank you"
"worked at the church."
"Still,"
"Why were you coming here in the first place? Hadn't you heard the rumors?"
"Yes, I'd heard."
"So why did you come? Was it because - did God tell you to?"
"Oh, there she is!"
"What're you doing here, you devil!"
"Just where do you think you are? This is a church, the house of God!"
"Come now, don't scream at me like that. I'm allowed to come to church, too, am I not? It's not the righteous man that needs God, but the wicked man,"
"Shut your mouth! You usurer! You loan shark!"
"Fine, fine. But I haven't come after your meager little coin purses today, I'll have you know."
"Well, if that's so..."
"E-er, do you have some business with me?"
"Well, we met in such circumstances earlier today, after all! After you left, I heard the circumstances from Ars, and I knew I couldn't leave the situation as it was."
"... Ci-circumstances?"
"Listen up, you all. This girl came here in search of work."
"She came here to this plague-ridden town that everyone else is fleeing. She came all this way to become a seamstress, and Ars screamed at her and drove her away."
"Welcome to Kuskov!"
"Well, you know Ars - she can be rather stubborn. You might have to wait awhile, but circumstances change. So please, don't leave town yet. Stay awhile. That's all I wanted to say,"
"And please, do let me know if you'd like to be a seamstress,"
"Have some shame, moneylender! How dare you try to get this girl's help!"
"That's right, don't you dare try to make her suffer the way you have us!"
"My name is Johan Erdrich. They say I'm a usurer, but really I'm just a money changer."
"How dare you tell such an obvious lie in the church!"
"I exchange the money of now for the money of the future, so I'm a money changer."
"That's all I had to say. Now then, if you'll excuse me."
"W-well, anyhow, if you've come looking for work, you're very welcome here. Kuskov will surely recover."
"Yes, yes! Just having more people to make the town lively again is a great help."
"What a busy day,"
"... And they lived happily ever after!"
"... Waaaaaaaaaah!"
"Ha-ha, here, miss, let me help!"
"You were laughing at me, weren't you?"
"Still, what shall we do next?"
"It was nice of those ladies to give me such a kind welcome, I suppose."
"We can't very well stay here imposing, but... it would be nice if some sort of work came up, until the town calms down a bit."
"I can't make any money just looking after children, though..."
"Enek?"
"I thought I'd be able to find work as a seamstress here, but..."
"Mmmmm-hmmm..."
"Oh, I'm sorry, were you asleep?"
"Oh n-no, I - thank you for lending me a needle!"
"A messenger came a moment ago. Apparently the bishop wishes to speak with you."
"The bishop?"
"He seems to have finished his morning duties. You weren't able to speak to him yesterday, were you?"
"Oh, if you do see you bishop, please ask him to pray for my inn. We've been busy, and I haven't been able to ask him myself."
"I wonder what he wants to talk to me about. Oh, but first I must thank him! An 'angel,' eh?"
"Ah-"
"What should we do?"
"Hey, you there!"
"What a fortunate encounter! This must be God's will,"
"H-hello again."
"Good day to you! And to your little knight, too."
"Come, let us walk,"
"So, Miss Norah-"
"My apologies,"
"After all those children went running home with smiles on their faces, news about you spread quickly."
"Did you do that sort of work in other towns, Miss Norah?"
"It was a jest. I didn't intend to tease you. But this town is my territory, you see. I wanted to see what sort of person you were."
"You're a shepherd, aren't you?"
"I thought you might be, but I just wasn't certain."
"The sheep around here are raised by farmers. So long as you don't tell anyone yourself, your secret will be safe."
"Anyhow, that's a relief."
"... Wha...?"
"The bishop sent for you, yes?"
"... Yes."
"You'll see when you get there. He didn't call for me, so I wanted to see what sort of fellow he did summon."
"You don't seem to lack experience, so I'm relieved you're a capable enough girl, so far as that goes. Although,"
"you might be a bit too wispy. You ought to eat a little more."
"I have brought her,"
"Are you God's servant, Norah Arendt?"
"In the name of Giuseppe Ozenstein, I appoint thee as the deacon of the church of Kuskov,"
"This is not a joke,"
"The bishop is merely sleeping. Of course, we don't know what will become of him yet, so... Ars, if you please,"
"I have the bishop's message for you,"
"Anyway, sit,"
"You may as well understand that there is no way for you to become a seamstress here in this town."
"E-er..."
"To begin with, we have no materials to make clothes with. We have no customers to order the clothes. And when the town recovers, those who fled to neighboring places will return. What do you suppose they will do when they find outsiders sitting in their chairs?"
"I... I see..."
"I understand."
"... So, given all that, we must talk."
"Huh?"
"The bishop asked this of me just moments ago. He needs a favor from you."
"He's named you as deacon. By his authority as bishop."
"The town is in a bad place,"
"The town of Rezul is trying to take us over."
"... Take you over?"
"You... when you came to my workshop, you saw, didn't you? There aren't any proper materials left in this town. Everything of value was sold at a deep discount to reckless merchants. No one who we can sell 173/193 anything to is coming here anymore, the price of wheat has risen, likewise meat, and we're all of us utterly without money. Rezul is trying to take advantage of that."
"Our town is in a desperate position, but if we had materials, there are craftsmen here who can work and merchants who will sell. But without the materials, nothing can be done. So the town of Rezul came and offered us a loan."
"But... why make me a deacon?"
"Well, obviously we can't accept their offer. Ever. If we accept it, our town will be swallowed up. We would have to pay back all the money and with plenty of interest, too."
"We want you to bargain with Rezul. As our deacon."
"To bargain..."
"Yes. If a proper merchant went, we'd probably lose. If they let slip that one town was refusing to sell to another town, there would surely be a fight. Maybe even a war. But if the church goes and tells them we won't trade with unbelievers like them, that's quite different. Nobody wants to risk a war with the church. We might be able to avoid a crisis."
"And so, if you're the deacon, then... well, look at the bishop. Someone has to act in his stead. Of course, we asked why we couldn't just use someone from the Kuskov, but he knows better than we do how things are in other towns,"
"And of course, Rezul knows we'll probably try to use the Church as a shield, which makes people from the town even less useful. 'You're not from the Church!' they'd say. Ugh, those Rezul bastards are awful. Have you heard the rumors? Barbarous pagans, the lot of them. They wear arrowheads around their necks!"
"And so we needed a traveler, and one who seems like they could be working for the Church - and so we chose you."
"E-er!"
"Hmm?"
"I understand now. But... um... so... why did you tell me to... er... give up on being a seamstress?"
"... Because you'll have to go act as our town's deacon and negotiate with them."
"Right."
"And after that... if you were to start working as a seamstress as though nothing had happened..."
"Ah!"
"You see? It would be strange. So that's why."
"L-look..."
"About yesterday... I'm sorry."
"Oh n-no, um... I was only thinking of myself, so..."
"Johan got so angry at me, too; I couldn't believe it... I really felt like I was to blame."
"Huh?"
"I mean... it's hard to explain, but you risked your life to come here, didn't you? You wanted to be a seamstress. That was your goal. You risked your life and came to this town for that, and that's when I finally realized - what I'd done. During the plague, when everyone was dying, I just cried and cried and didn't..."
"So that's how I realized... we can't go on like this."
"So I'll ask you again. I'm well aware that I smashed your dream. You won't have to be our deacon forever. But just for now, will you help save this town?"
"This, too, must be the will of God."
"S-so, you'll-!"
"Yes. I'll do whatever I can."
"I did it again,"
"... Ungh... I'm so tired,"
"Enek, I'm so tired..."
"You're lucky, Enek, not having to work so hard,"
"Tomorrow they're going to teach me the basics of contract negotiation, and they said I have to recite the replies I'll need to prove I'm really of the Church, if asked... I hope I can do it. I can barely remember what I learned today..."
"Mmm... hee-hee. You're right. I'll be fine."
"I suppose my dream's run off again. I'll have to do my best to help these people,"
"And anyway, they've apologized so much and thanked me even more. I've barely had any time at all to feel sad."
"Mr. Aman even asked me if I would come work for his guild. He said they have connections in all sorts of town and could work something out. He said if I did that, other people would be helping me."
"They even said if everything goes well, I could just continue on as a proper deacon here."
"I don't know if I should do that, though... Apparently there's precedent, but still..."
"But I still wish I could become a seamstress. Is that selfish of me?"
"Y-yes!"
"I'm sorry to bother you so late at night."
"Not at all,"
"I'm sure you're tired, but I need a bit of your time. May I come in?"
"I've just been to Lord Careca's manor, where I scavenged this."
"Scavenged...?"
"That's right. Look,"
"We'll make your vestments with this. It's fine cloth - normally only the guild master would be able to use it... but that's me now. Anyway, that's good cloth."
"Originally it was a tablecloth in Lord Careca's manor."
"We don't have much time to make your clothes, so we've got to get your measurements today."
"If there were more time, I'd do a proper job of it. But time is short, so... of course, when you become a real deacon, I'll make you proper clothes and not out of Mr. Careca's tablecloth,"
"Why did you want to become a seamstress?"
"It seemed like I would never be able to wear pretty things, so I thought I'd at least like to make them."
"It's quite difficult to make pretty things, too, you know. At first you never get to make anything besides raggedy work clothes for old men."
"Far from it; apprentices don't even get to touch a needle. In our trade guild, a clothier apprenticeship lasts six years. The first year you do nothing but clean the workshop. The next year, you repair tools. Starting in your third year, they let you hold a needle and scissors for the first time, but you still don't get to use cloth. All you get to use are scraps. In your fourth year, you finally start to make something that resembles clothing, but it's not until your fifth year that you're making clothes from scratch. And of course, even if you pass your journeyman's test in your sixth year, you've still a long way to go. My master... the previous master, that is, said he didn't sew a wedding gown until twelve years after he'd started as an apprentice."
"Twelve years..."
"Though it didn't take that long before I was making priests' clothes. I must be lucky."
"I know this is temporary, but since you're becoming a deacon, I think God's blessings will always be with you."
"All right,"
"If you've time, you should come by the workshop. I'll teach you a little."
"Huh?"
"You've been mending those clothes yourself, right? They're terrible,"
"I can teach you the basics, anyhow. Although there are a lot of things I still wanted to learn from my predecessor."
"... If you would, then."
"I will,"
"Oh, I can also teach you something else."
"Something else?"
"Yes,"
"I heard from the innkeeper that you were singing the clothiers' song a bit wrong."
"Uh, um, er, that was...!"
"Ha-ha! Well, it's a bit late for it tonight, but I'll make sure to teach it to you properly. All the first-year apprentices have to learn it whether they like it or not. They even made me sing it in the town square,"
"So in exchange,"
"teach me some shepherds' songs."
"I heard from Johan. He comes from a long line of hated moneylenders. He was really worried. Aw, you don't have to make such a face."
"It would make me think I ought to take a moneylender as a husband."
"-!"
"Well, I'll be off."
"Sorry about yesterday, pup."
"Did she say 'husband'?"
"... So be it. God is..."
"... Illuminated by... His glory. For... for... ugh...!"
"For thus is the will of God!"
"Ugh... I was worried about memorizing the first part, but... yes. It wasn't that hard to remember, really. Hey, Enek, are you listening?"
"Do you think you could learn a word or two yourself, Enek?"
"Oh, that's right, what time is it now?"
"We'd better hurry, Enek!"
"Gosh, I really didn't get to do anything fun,"