
"Poultry legs."
"I assume that's something you'd like to eat?"
"And a hen would be best rather than a cock,"
"A hen gives eggs, too."
"Poultry... I tell you, the peculiar spring of raw chicken meat is truly irresistible. Though the feathers can be a bit of a bother..."
"I've never eaten one raw, but they're worth the trouble of cooking, that's for sure."
"Oh?"
"Pluck the feathers, remove the organs, debone the meat, then steam it with seasoning, boil the meat with vegetables, fill the bird 11/178 with stuffing, then crisp the skin with hot oil, then roast it one more time with fragrant spices... Hey, you're drooling."
"Muh... mmph."
"Wait a moment. Cooking is all well and good, but there are other places where a special effort results in a more delicious meat."
"... Other places?"
"There are fowl that are neither cock nor hen, you know."
"Oh?"
"Go on, go on!"
"They take the males and castrate them."
"Ho. And that..."
"It yields an even tastier meat than a hen's. It's not tough like a cock's, but their energy doesn't go into making eggs like a hen's does."
"Mm..."
"That does indeed sound tasty."
"Do not worry. I'm well aware you're a capable male when there's need of it."
"Still..."
"Ouch-!"
"... You're hardly fit to be called a male, exaggerating your tales because you're unconcerned whether I'll beg you for poultry!"
"Hmph. Consider my teasing your punishment for that. Speaking of such delicious things, when on our journey all we have to eat are these plain rations - why, I could just die."
"Look here, our food may be plain, but the bread's a mix of wheat and rye, and the wine is fine and clear, and we'd get along perfectly well without it. And then we have cheese and jerky, and we also have fruits and raisins, which is quite luxurious enough. In the past I used to travel on nothing but raw garlic and onions. Compared with that, what we have is unbelievable luxury."
"I shall die, surely."
"Fine, fine."
"... What is fine?"
"I'm sorry. If we can find some poultry, I'll buy it for you. But that offer is only good while we're on the road."
"I seem to recall that I told you earlier - I can tell a man's lies from truth."
"Certainly. I remember quite well."
"Is that so?"
"It is."
"Mm..."
"Hmph. Still, you-"
"Hmm?"
"What you said earlier - it was no lie, was it?"
"What I said earlier? Oh, about the castrated fowl...?"
"Fool. No, about buying one for me should we encounter one."
"Did I say that...?"
"You did, did you not?"
"Surely you don't intend to quibble over whether or not you were speaking to me, do you?"
"Fine. I'm sorry. I'll keep my promise. However-"
"However?"
"Just one."
"Just one,"
"How about something to liven up your travels, sir?"
"Besides the chicken, I've got some excellent ale. How about it?"
"Might we taste the ale?"
"But of course!"
"It's just been brewed. Look, it's even still bubbling!"
"So, how about it?"
"I suppose we'll take some ale with the chicken."
"But I think I'd like several chickens. Not just the one."
"Huh?"
"There's a village nearby, is there not? We're not in a terrible hurry, so perhaps you'd take us there to buy more."
"Truly? Of course, of course!"
"Well, then, follow me!"
"Come now, if you're angry, you might say as much,"
"Sorry, sorry. No, I just had an idea, you see."
"... An idea?"
"Call it a merchant's intuition."
"If this goes well, I really will buy you more than one."
"We'll see, but I shan't expect much."
"Quite a remote place,"
"Well, we're here! Welcome to Jisahz!"
"W-well, then, this way! You can wash the dust from your feet at my home!"
"wash the dust from your feet,"
"Goodness, welcome, welcome! Go on, dear. Call the village elder!"
"Er, I'm very grateful for the warm welcome, but we're mere traveling merchants, so..."
"Yes, yes, and honored merchants are most welcome! Please do come in! I'm sorry we can't offer much, but..."
"Well, thank you. We're sorry to impose on your generosity."
"Not at all. Come in! You can leave your wagon right there. Dear! Go fetch some hay and a bucket of water!"
"Ah, so you're heading north, are you?"
"Yes, to a town called Lenos."
"I see... Well, you can see what sort of village this is. We're very grateful to be able to welcome a traveling merchant like yourself."
"No doubt it was God's will that I be led to this town and to be welcomed so warmly. If I can help you in any way, please ask."
"We thank you for that."
"Let us give thanks to God for this encounter, then."
"... Aah, that is fine ale, indeed."
"It is shameful - thanks given to God call for wine, but we cannot raise grapevines here."
"God determines the flavor of wine, but it's the skill of humans that give ale its taste. And you surely possess fine brewing methods to make this ale."
"In truth, our brewing uses a secret technique,"
"So, yes... oh?"
"Elder! Drey and the others, they're at it again!"
"My apologies. I must tend to this."
"Not at all. You've welcomed us quite warmly enough. Your duties to the village are more important."
"So then-"
"I imagine you'd like an explanation, eh?"
"This is a colony village,"
"Colony?"
"There are many reasons, but it happens when people move into undeveloped land and found a new town or village there. And sometimes, once in a while, villages get founded in isolated places like this one."
"Why would they do such a thing?"
"This is just a guess, but do you recall the rocks and logs we saw piled next to the spring when we entered the village? I'll bet they plan on building an abbey."
"An... abbey?"
"Yes. It's a place where a chosen few devout believers can conduct their worship. Undisturbed by worldly temptations, they can live simply, humbly, and purely, which is why they would choose a desolate place like this."
"Hmm... It's as you say, then..."
"So then, you're going to take advantage of their weak position."
"I'm merely going to help some people who are in trouble."
"Oh, indeed. You want to be the first to mark this village as your territory and make it into grist for your business."
"Hmm. Well, do enjoy playing the savior."
"...?"
"My apologies, honored travelers. If either of you can read, we have need of your assistance, if you would be so kind."
"Enough! Would you break the agreement we've already made? My field is six chiechen in size!"
"That is a plain lie! It's mine that was clearly stated to be six chiechens! Yours is five! So why is mine now smaller? And now you've the nerve to build this fence-"
"Elder, I've brought them."
"Aah, yes."
"It is very difficult to ask you this, but..."
"A fight over land division, is it?"
"Yes, that is it exactly,"
"In truth, this village was built on the orders of a certain nobleman, and there are often fights over the size of the lands as they were decided at that time. Normally we resolve them calmly, but those two have nursed a grudge for a very long time, it seems..."
"So then, is there a written deed for the land?"
"This is the same, but none of us can read what's written upon it."
"If I might have a look at it, then."
"... Ah, I see."
"There are a few among us who can read, but none of them can understand this parchment. We believe it must be in the letters of some foreign land."
"No, this is the special writing of the Church. I myself can only read numbers and a few set phrases in it."
"Hmm, yes. I believe I see where the trouble is."
"Did those two men happen to be craftsmen before?"
"Th-that's right. But how did you know?"
"The land is divided such that they both should receive six chiechen. There's no mistake about that. But here..."
"'Sheepfold,' it says. One of the sheepfolds is six chiechen, the other five."
"I see..."
"So they didn't realize they were meant to be sheepfolds."
"It seems that Chai Barton donated just a bit more to the abbey, so Barton was given the six-chiechen sheepfold."
"Barton's the one on the left there. Goodness, to think that's what they've been fighting over..."
"Without any experience with such matters, it's hard to understand the importance of a mere sheep pen."
"That was settled rather too quickly,"
"Memories are all too often mistaken. Not so with the written word."
"You can't expand your business if you're having fights like this every day. It's why contracts are so important."
"Important enough that you were thinking to back out of your promise of chicken."
"Quite so,"
"Are you all right?"
"Honestly, you are a hopeless male."
"Hmm, so you were awake, eh?"
"How could I sleep with the sound of you grinning away like that?"
"I left the feast in such a state, and you just kept grinning away, not a care in the world..."
"Your voice seems so cheerful now - I can't tell you how relieved that makes me."
"Fool."
"Why did you leave so early? The chicken and ale were both delicious."
"Did you truly find that ale delicious?"
"Huh?"
"I could not drink it. I cannot believe anything so foul smelling would be called 'delicious.'"
"They put the spices of their homelands into it. It's a very peculiar scent. For people who like that scent, it's wonderful, but for those who don't-"
"Fool."
"Enough!"
"..."
"foolish male"
"So, what are you doing?"
"Translation."
"Trans... lafuh?"
"Yes. They asked me to translate this troublesome Church document into the language they're familiar with, so that scuffles like yesterday's won't happen."
"Huh..."
"Well, so long as you're working I can keep eating and drinking without any hesitation."
"I wish you'd hesitate a little for my sake, at least,"
"Hey, that's mine-"
"Come, don't make such a nasty face. 'Twas only a bit of a joke."
"If it's only a joke, why is there so little bread left?"
"I ought to be allowed to beg from you a little at least."
"Such honor you do me,"
"Perhaps I'll go beg from the villagers next time, then, eh? 'Sir, sir, please, might I have some bread?'"
"Just how many servings do you plan to eat, then?"
"I suppose when the villagers ask me that question, I'll put a hand to my belly and answer thus..."
"'Well... I'm eating for two now, so...' I'll say,"
"What, is this the first time you've realized I eat enough for two?"
"Heh. Come now, you've been working there since morning - you'll get wrinkles on your forehead if you keep it up. Go outside and take in some of the cold air, eh?"
"I can't let seed grain fall on a field that's already been harvested."
"Mm. I can't promise I won't take a liking to the wheat here."
"It's true that your taking a liking to the wheat here would be troublesome. I couldn't stand to watch you eating food off the ground,"
"They don't have much trade with towns, so evidently they sow beans even during this season."
"Beans are good for when the soil's been exhausted. Of course, the earth here is good enough that they should be able to get good harvests for a while without worrying over such details."
"So, how much do you suppose you'll be able to wring from this village?"
"That's not a very nice way to put it."
"You were putting things much more nastily yesterday."
"Profit is generated whenever goods are exchanged. If it's going to come bubbling up without my having to do any work, I have only to drink my fill."
"Hmm... As though 'twere wine, eh?"
"This time I ought to be able to turn a profit without relying on you. For an opportunity met through happenstance by the way-side, it's quite large. Even if you do stuff yourself with chicken."
"I have depended on your abilities quite a bit, after all. It's nice this way, even just as a change of pace, isn't it?"
"So you-"
"Hmm?"
"You truly imagine I could eat and drink without worry?"
"Is that why you were angry last night...?"
"It's not something you need agonize over... that's what I think anyway. You're honorable to a fault, after all."
"Hmph. I'm only an ignorant wolf, after all. I can't even read those words."
"Ah, if that's the problem, then I have an idea."
"...?"
"Why don't you just give them some wheat growing advice?"
"I'm sure they'd be happy to get even a bit of wisdom. They've gotten into farming without even knowing what a sheepfold is. Isn't there something you could tell them?"
"The happier they are, the easier my work will be."
"such cunning tricks you use,"
"Hn..."
"Come, you needn't agonize so. Surely there's some small thing you could teach them,"
"Mr. Lawrence!"
"Mr. Lawrence!"
"Ah, sorry, my translation isn't yet..."
"No, no - I know we've already burdened you with work, and it pains me to admit it, but there's another matter I'd like to ask you about..."
"Another matter?"
"Well, if there's anything I can do, I'll be happy to."
"Oh, thank goodness. I'm so grateful. Truth be told, the village 41/178 has recently had more and more problems like the one you saw yesterday. I was hoping we could borrow your wisdom..."
"... My wisdom?"
"So everyone just chose bits of land here and there, and we didn't realize we needed a common point of reference until disputes started happening."
"Right. When the village was just starting out, there was enough land that there wouldn't be problems right away. But without a starting reference, you end up with small slivers of land where nobody knows who they belong to - if I drew a map it'd be plain as day."
"I should think tearing a piece of flatbread into pieces would make a better example than any map,"
"Oat bread, you mean? I doubt they'd find such tough stuff tasty."
"I suppose I wouldn't claim it's delicious if you asked me, but that texture is addictive. My fangs do itch for it from time to time..."
"What? I should think your fangs are keener than mine by far."
"Huh?"
"Their poison's already working on me."
"Are you saying your work's more important than I am?"
"Of course."
"Wha-"
"No, what I mean is that if I can't help the villagers, they won't be indebted to me. Our profit depends on that, but I can talk with you later..."
"You'd best hope my good graces aren't so limited!"
"..."
"You truly are a fool. 'Tis enough to make me wonder whether you have any aptitude for study at all."
"What did I just tell you? What did I just endure such embarrassment to tell you? I am right here, and yet you toil away there, alone..."
"Ah..."
"Might I... er... borrow your wisdom?"
"I suppose I might be the biggest fool of all,"
"Hmph. Truth be told, all my wisdom amounts to is what I learned in that vexing village of Pasloe."
"... Stone or wood markers can be moved, so we can't use those. Even if we put the boundaries in writing, verifying the position of those boundaries is just another thing to argue about."
"Fool. Did you forget what it was that brought me to tears in Pasloe?"
"So what should we do, then? Without an astronomer we can't accurately determine direction or position. We could use the mountains and springs as landmarks, like a sailor would, but recording that in writing is impossible. A map based only on landmarks is too vague."
"Yesterday during that scuffle, you said that people's memories were too vague, did you not?"
"Huh? Er, yes, that's why this needs to be in writing."
"Hmm. I understand that people trust writing because once something's written, it won't change. But are people's memories really so untrustworthy?"
"At the very least, when there's a dispute 45/178 between two people, it's not objective to rely on anyone's memory. And when it comes to land, records must last years, even decades."
"I suppose that's true,"
"But suppose you did something like this?"
"As you say,"
"great landmarks like mountains, springs, or hills are too broad, but if you combine several, you can determine locations quite accurately. When I was in the mountains, I could tell where I was by what I could see from the ridge."
"However, it so happens that there are memories that everyone can agree upon."
"Mr. Lawrence, the villagers have all been assembled."
"Good work. Where's the representative?"
"By God's grace, there seems to be just one suitable person."
"Is that possible?"
"It just might be."
"In the name of myself and the name of the village, I swear to almighty God to settle here and now the problem of land division that has plagued us for so long."
"You have all been gathered here to bear witness to this and to remember the events of today should we be so unfortunate as to again quarrel over this matter."
"The ceremony we are about to witness was delivered to us by these two wise travelers and has long been used to settle property. As elder of this village, I recommend this boy as the representative for the ceremony."
"Are there any objections?"
"Very well, then. Let us begin."
"We thank you,"
"My name's Holo. What's yours?"
"Ah - it's Clorri."
"Clorri, eh? 'Tis a good name."
"Now, then, Clorri, were going to play a bit of a game. Don't worry, all will be well. 'Tis not difficult."
"First, we face north and pray."
"Pray?"
"Aye. Any prayer will do. You pray every day in this village, do you not?"
"The north has its own special angels and so does the south. If you pray for tasty food, you might just receive it,"
"Try it,"
"When the angels and spirits hear your prayers, there are omens. You need to remember very carefully the lay of the land, so you don't miss them."
"Mm. Well done. Now then, Clorri."
"The angels and spirits love smiles. Give them your biggest smile!"
"-!"
"Though human memory is vague, there are moments that none of us can forget. This brave boy, Clorri, will surely remember the scenery he memorized today for years and decades to come,"
"If there be anyone who objects to this ceremony, raise your hand!"
"No!"
"In my old village, we didn't use slaps - we threw stones."
"Mm. Well, this should settle things,"
"Finished, are you?"
"Yes, somehow."
"Well, then, we can drink and carouse to our hearts' content."
"I still have to complete my business negotiations, though. Of course..."
"This is all thanks to my wise traveling companion."
"It seems I've wound up owing you the greater part yet again. How would you like your payment?"
"Mm... I can have anything?"
"'Anything' is a frightening promise to make, but let's say a hundred silver pieces. That would certainly get you another set of fine clothes like what you're wearing now."
"If it's impossible, I'll give up on it, but..."
"That's surprisingly magnanimous of you,"
"The work you were just now doing."
"Work? You mean this?"
"Yes, that writing work. You said if they'd asked someone in a town to do it, it would've cost a goodly amount."
"Oh, you want me to write something for you?"
"Hmm? Er... well, aye..."
"If that's all, that's a small favor indeed. You want nothing else - no apples, no honeyed peach preserves?"
"Such things are surely tempting, but food once eaten is gone. You said it yourself - the written word does not change and endures for ages,"
"I can't write you a thick volume, though."
"Nay, 'twill not be such a long thing to write."
"So, what shall I write?"
"The title is this: the Wisewolf Holo's..."
"... Homecoming Guide Contract."
"Human memories are unreliable, after all. I cannot have you forgetting your promise."
"N-no, that... but..."
"But?"
"Hmph. So many times you've shocked me thus! For my part, I'll not soon forget our contract."
"But you seem penitent enough, so I'll forgive you."
"... I'm sorry."
"Mm."
"Still,"
"If a contract is no longer needed, then I can ask for some other reward for my services, can I not?"
"No, wait, you're not-"
"I wonder what one could buy with the fee to have such a travel contract written. Can I even eat that much...?"
"Heh. You look just like poor Clorri did not long ago,"
"Will you now start to cry, eh?"
"That might not be such a bad idea. At least I've got someone who'll let me bawl at them."
"Assuming that small chest of yours can stand up to-"
"Now I'll never forget your smile."
"What is the matter?"
"There's a lumber mill here."
"A lumber mill?"
"Or at least there used to be. A place where trees are cut down and their trunks made into lumber for building."
"I see... and the lumber mill's down that road?"
"On this side of the forest is a busy trade route that connects many towns and villages, and thanks to the constant sheep and cattle traffic, the land is totally barren, as you can see. But on the other side of the forest is a lush, fertile plain."
"A lush plain, eh?"
"Apparently its face is thick with green grass even this time of year."
"I am no sheep. Green grass is hardly cause for me to celebrate,"
"My apologies. But grass isn't merely for eating, you know."
"Mm?"
"With weather such as this, doesn't the idea of basking in the sun on a grassy knoll hold a bit of appeal?"
"Were you not in a hurry?"
"We need some rest to keep making efficient progress. Still, I don't want to get your hopes too high..."
"What do you mean?"
"I don't know how trustworthy the map is. If crossing the forest looks to be too much trouble, we'll just give up."
"'Tis no concern at all - we'll just have a nice nap in the shade."
"So, what say you?"
"Not bad."
"Not bad at all!"
"Aye, winter forests..."
"'Tis better to come in the early morning rather than midday."
"Why's that?"
"Mm. Even a forest like this has some leaves that fall to the ground, does it not? Over the night they'll become soaked with dew, which turns to mist in the morning sunlight. If we'd been able to get a breath of that..."
"... The misty air would be a delicious balm to our winter-parched lungs,"
"For afternoon visits, summer is best. Rays of sunlight stream through the leaves and tickle one's cheeks like the feathers of a songbird."
"Too many flies in summer, though."
"Still, forests are lovely places. We've been traveling across plains so much of late that... aah... aaahhh... so, aye..."
"It's not just forests, you know. There's pleasure to be had on the plains, too."
"Oh, aye?"
"Long chats with one's traveling companion, for one."
"I'm a wolf, after all. Sadly I've no interest in conversation without any meat to it."
"So you're saying you want furious debate for dinner, then?"
"Furious, nay. I would hope for something more passionate."
"Passionate? Oh, you mean the sort of talk that makes one's face blush?"
"Heh. Aye."
"Just thinking about how much wine you've drunk is enough to make my face turn red."
"... I haven't had that much."
"Make sure you save a bit for enjoying on the sunny field, eh?"
"I said I did not drink that much,"
"'Tis true, though I do enjoy idle conversation. And my very favorite sort is..."
"... When you get to tease a poor traveling merchant?"
"Hmm? Oh, aye, that's nice as well."
"So what is your favorite sort of conversation?"
"... At the very least, I have no great love for this sort of conversation,"
"I'm sorry,"
"So, what is your favorite sort of conversation?"
"Am I a child?"
"Huh?"
"A conversation has a certain flow, does it not? Do you suppose that by simply asking me again, I'll just happily answer you and that will be that?"
"..."
"I'm sorry."
"Hmph."
"So... when will we finally clear this forest?"
"They say the forest spirits can create new paths through the woods - I don't suppose Holo the Wisewolf has any such abilities?"
"If this were a wheat field, it would not be impossible."
"Oh, really? Now, that I'd like to see."
"Perhaps if there's an opportunity."
"Still, this forest is strange."
"Strange in what way?"
"There are a lot of paths. Too many even for lumber harvesting."
"..."
"What's the matter?"
"Are we about to be lost?"
"We've come all this way and I remember our route, so it's fine."
"Aye, well, you're the lifelong traveler, so."
"..."
"..."
"Hmm. Goodness, but you're adorable,"
"I wonder how much worse 'twould be if you had ears and a tail like mine."
"Wh-what do you mean?"
"I mean I've never seen a male quite so transparent as you."
"What?"
"After kicking aside my warning, you can't very well suggest we turn back, and yet continuing on could be dangerous. So, what to do?"
"Your tiresome stubbornness is only too obvious."
"And yet..."
"And yet when I wonder why you're so stubborn, I can hardly find it within myself to be angry."
"You're trying to get the advantage of me, even if it's a reach, aren't you? You're like a child. How can I be mad at a child?"
"Your problem is this,"
"You decide everything on a set of scales."
"... Scales?"
"Aye. Which side is heavier, which is higher or lower. It's no good, looking to that to the exclusion of all else. It might be right for a merchant, but..."
"Just how long do you plan on holding those reins for?"
"... Huh? I mean, we'll have to turn back here, so..."
"Honestly... It's just as I said, is it not? What you need is a better instinct for a conversation's flow."
"Ah!"
"Huh. So you've finally hit upon it, have you?"
"If you'd only done as much from the start - but no, you just had to work your way in deeper. It's not my cleverness that makes it so simple for me to trip you up, but rather your foolishness."
"So you've understood that there's no need to seek this meadow in order to cheer me up, aye?"
"You mean your favorite sort of idle chatter?"
"Aye. If you'd only thought to confirm that, not only would you not have need to make a meadow detour, you'd have been able to quite thoroughly cheer me up."
"So, what is your favorite way to converse?"
"Heh-heh... to be quite honest, I'd never be able to admit it if the conversation had not come to this place,"
"What I like best is... falling asleep while talking like this. Just drifting off to the sound of idle conversation..."
"So - rather foolish, eh?"
"... Unfortunately, yes."
"Yet who is it that holds the advantage here?"
"I just can't win with you, can I?"
"I should say not."
"Come now... I told you what sort of conversation I like - so will you not speak?"
"I am your guardian, you know."
"You pass."
"'Tis best to leave your snare at the base of a waterfall."
"And the foolish fish will swim right into it."
"This particular conversation should end here."
"That's good hay. The livestock will grow well this year,"
"In truth they'll grow too much, and come winter you'll have nothing but meat."
"Oh? Perhaps I should buy up more than usual, then. Hmm."
"For how much?"
"Seventeen ligot."
"I was promised at least twenty,"
"You're supposed to push for more - twenty-five, say."
"Olar!"
"All right. Given your nerve, let's call it twenty ligot."
"And of course that'll include the rental for the wagon."
"Certainly. The finder's fee is also included."
"Thanks be to God."
"We'll be going,"
"Milady."
"Are you not regretful of your actions?"
"Ah. Sorry. I am a bit,"
"I was hoping you'd appreciate how I held my temper when that merchant tried to break his promise, but it seems that ship has sailed."
"Milady!"
"Come, don't be angry. And I thought I told you to stop calling me 'milady.'"
"Then I'd ask you to try and think a bit more like a merchant."
"Of course I think like a merchant. I moved so much herring my hands smell of it, and coming back I brought great loads of hay."
"And that's quite wonderful. I'm sure no one would suspect that until recently you were terrified to ride a horse."
"Twelve ligot to buy the herring. Four ligot for taxes. Provisions including bread, mutton jerky, and pickled pork, cheese, and wine, half a ligot. Two for the horse feed and wagon rental. Add it all up and what does it come to?"
"I had no intention of taking that offer."
"Is that so?"
"Are you saying I'm such a coward I won't argue at all?"
"No. But, milady, while you might insist that you were promised twenty, you have nothing to prove that."
"I know I heard him strike the bargain at that price. Do you doubt me?"
"It is not that I doubt you. But nothing is so terrible to witness as a pointless argument, and normally both sides give a little and strike a bargain somewhere in the middle."
"So that's why you said twenty-five ligot!"
"milady"
"So, milady - how much did you buy that hay for?"
"Two ligot."
"The villagers were in dire straits. Their sickles were chipped and dull and had to be repaired. They swore they couldn't survive unless they got two ligot."
"Is that so?"
"Do you suppose I'm lying?"
"I'm sorry, Olar. But you called me 'milady.' You know how that irritates me."
"A proper merchant needs a proper excuse."
"So, milady, after all that work you still took a loss?"
"It wasn't a loss."
"Then what was it?"
"Milady, I may be an uneducated woman, but I know well enough to understand what Mr. Oura said."
"Stop calling me 'milady.'"
"I will not stop. Milady!"
"Milady."
"Bertra's in tears. She said you wouldn't listen to her."
"..."
"I know. I know."
"And?"
"I'll apologize to Bertra. And I promise I'll listen to what she says."
"..."
"And I promise I'll eat all my dinner."
"Please just rest a while,"
"I'm a merchant, after all,"
"If that hay is as good as it is, the horse trade might be a good one."
"Horses?"
"It seems that war may break out in the far south of the continent across the sea. If it does come to war, then the price of horses will soar, as though they themselves had wings."
"If it's such a good opportunity, won't others already be doing it?"
"There's no particular need to be first. If there's truly profit to be had, it should be good enough to be second or third."
"So. Horses, eh?"
"I'll talk to the company merchants when I go to collect our payment tomorrow,"
"Please do your best to avoid losing money, milady."
"Oh, again? How's it getting in, I wonder."
"Do you suppose this dog's the one who tore the wheat sacks?"
"Here, boy."
"Milady!"
"My husband only stole from others. I have no mind to follow his example."
"You are much too kind, milady."
"Too kind to live among the common folk?"
"We're all perfectly aware of how things were when you were a wife, and while I have no praise to give my former master, we must still earn our living via trade. Unless milady has discovered some other way of making a livelihood?"
"You can't give away what you haven't first earned. Anyone of quality would cry to hear one of their own say such things."
"And the bookkeepers of any kind landlord are always in tears."
"Quite so. And I hate to see Bertra's crying face so."
"Now then, I'm off to do business. I won't lose money this time."
"Off you go, then, milady."
"Right, here's your payment."
"Horses?"
"Yes. We've heard there may be war and thus a need for horses."
"Mm, well, yes... Horses, you say."
"You've got to pay usage fees in order to get hay to feed them, do you not? If hay is expensive, it takes money just to keep them."
"And you're saying people will be looking to sell. That's it, is it?"
"Mm,"
"And do you suppose that you're the first person to think of that?"
"Not at all. But there's profit enough to be had for even the second or third."
"Apologies. You're getting better at this every day. It's as you say. But as you can see, we have our hands quite full with business here, so we've no time to go out and buy horses. So if you were to obtain them for us - well, I won't say we wouldn't buy them."
"So would you or wouldn't you?"
"Well, we can't buy a starving, stubborn nag, now, can we? I won't make any promises."
"Of course, even if we couldn't buy them, there would be plenty of people who would want to. If you gauge the market and buy them for the right price, you won't have trouble selling them."
"I see."
"Still..."
"?"
"I do think it could be difficult. Horses are living creatures, after all. It's not uncommon for a prize horse to turn into a wagon nag while you're transporting it."
"I suppose that's true..."
"But consider this."
"Hmm?"
"If you've got enough money on hand to be buying horses, there are other lines of business."
"Other lines of business?"
"No fuss, no risk of illness, no need to worry about feed or care. With an opportunity like this, even an inexperienced merchant won't fail too badly. A horse may sell dear, but in exchange they're quite a bit of trouble."
"And what is this other business?"
"Clothing, my dear!"
"... Clothing?"
"This figure is how much I paid when buying it up. And here's what I sold it for. The margin isn't so great as a horse might have, but... as you can see, every single item from top to bottom turned a profit."
"It's a reliable trade,"
"But what sort of clothing would I buy?"
"That would be your decision to make."
"Ah yes, as it happens, one of the people my company does business with has quite the eye for fashion."
"Quite the eye?"
"Yes. We've had him sell clothing we've bought up in the past, and he's quite talented at it. The pieces just fly out of our hands left and right. He's been saying he wants to move from buying to managing and has been looking for someone with capital."
"So... I would supply the capital, and the profit would be shared?"
"Even so. And in addition to the profit, you'd gain knowledge of the clothing business. And your partner would handle everything from purchase onward, so you'd maximize your profit."
"Well..."
"The man's name is Milton Post."
"The clothing business, eh?"
"Yes. So, perhaps we should take the opportunity to... Olar?"
"Apologies. This rich scent is terribly nostalgic. But yes, the clothing business. You would-"
"The company has a man whom they entrust with the sale of the clothing they buy up, and this man is looking to do the buying himself this time, it seems."
"I see..."
"His name's Milton Post."
"Of the Post family?"
"You know him?"
"... Mm. Of course I do."
"The head of the house was a knight renowned as much for his courtly elegance as for his bravery. The tales of his romances are many, but he was also an honorable, family-minded man. It is said that he left no less than thirty descendants behind."
"Since it would've been impossible for all of his children to inherit land, he's probably one of them. You said he helps the trading company sell clothing?"
"Mm, yes... huh?"
"Y-yes."
"Well, I imagine he mostly sells to the nobility. We ourselves once did something similar - hiring the impoverished second or third sons of noble families. The idea being that when you go to introduce yourself, if you say you're from the cobblers or the smiths, you'll be turned away at the door, but if you have a name of quality... and the fashion of the nobility changes quickly. We needed people with both names and know-how to do our selling."
"I see..."
"So you met this Post fellow, did you?"
"Not yet. I thought it would be better not to rush and check with you first."
"Is that so? Perhaps milady is finally beginning to open her eyes."
"I've already made terrible mistakes twice over by trusting my own judgment."
"...?"
"But you still have much to learn, and the road will be hard. The coins they paid milady with..."
"The coins? Are they the wrong amount?"
"With coins that have this much shaved from their edges, I doubt a money changer would give us their face value for them. We might lose as much as ten percent in the transaction."
"Still, you couldn't remember every single lesson even if I could give it all to you at once. One step at a time. Of course..."
"Of course?"
"If you were an apprentice that I might whip and beat into shape, things might be different."
"I was slapped once during a banquet. I cried for a week."
"Now then, on to this new opportunity."
"I'd like that."
"So, as far as this notion of selling clothing goes, what are your thoughts?"
"I thought it seemed good."
"Is that so?"
"Is it... not?"
"Not at all. If milady decides it is, then I think it is fine. Just as the company fellow said - horses can be sick, injured, or even die, but clothing can last for years if properly cared for. There was once a time when dealing in clothes meant it would be three years or more before you could record the profit or loss in a ledger like this. It's a business where it's hard to sustain heavy losses, so for training purposes I think it's quite suitable."
"So-"
"This will be milady's third time making a trade as a merchant."
"But you've got to listen to my advice. Is that understood?"
"But of course!"
"Then God's blessing be upon you,"
"Haven't we met? At a banquet, I think,"
"Ah, that's right. At Lord Milton's banquet."
"Ah-"
"We only met the once, though. It seems you don't remember."
"I suppose it's no surprise, though. Your attention was always so hoped for."
"As I recall, your name is-"
"Fleur Bolan."
"That's right. The daughter of the Bolan family - the one who that famously nasty Lady Duan slapped."
"Ah!"
"I seem to recall many an apprentice knight seeking your favor after that. Perhaps you didn't know?"
"Still, what happened after that... I can't help but be sympathetic. Though there were some who spoke ill."
"After all, we can't decide our own fates. The only ones who can do that are the ones sitting in far more fortunate positions than we have."
"My entire house-"
"Hmm?"
"My entire house fell from such a position. And yet against all odds, it seems there's a place for me in this world, though I would never have imagined it would be working as a merchant."
"I was the third son of the second mistress, so as you might expect, when I left the house I received nothing but a tiny scrap of land, a bit of coin, and the Post name. I don't have the horse and armor I'd need to spend my days jousting and make some noble girl my own, nor the wit to make my way reciting ballads. But I expected as much, so this was not any great shock to me."
"And then you went into trading?"
"Fortunately, the Post name opened many doors for me. 99/178 And I loved good food, good wine, and idle chatter, so I turned up at many a table around the land. As I wandered around, I would hear talk of where a man like me might be needed, so it's true - you can find surprising places for yourself."
"I hear tell your business is going well."
"Ha-ha. It's a bit embarrassing hearing someone say as much to my face, but I do have a certain amount of confidence."
"What's your secret?"
"It's stubbornness."
"Stubbornness. There are lots of people in the same business as me, but once they've sold something to someone they know, they stop there and can't sell any more. That's because they are in the same place as the people buying the clothes. The first sale they make is because the buyer feels sympathy for them. But that's not how I work. I remind them that the Post name will open doors for them, that it's nothing more than the first foothold in making the most of a business opportunity. Having done so, they may laugh at me, they may scorn me. I praise their taste and recommend my wares' finer points, and make the sale. And of course, I never move poor clothing. So it sells."
"Enough that my business partners find me useful, anyway,"
"Ha-ha, was that a bit too pretentious?"
"N-not at all..."
"Still,"
"that was all because I have a goal."
"I want to rub my family's face in it."
"It's a bit different from proving I'm not some shame upon the Post name. It's more like showing that even though I've been cast out, I can still succeed. It's about pride. If I can keep that, I don't care how many times my knees hit the floor when I bow my head - I'll be doing it as a merchant."
"So, you are..."
"Yes?"
"... Looking for capital, I hear."
"That's right."
"How much?"
"The bread was rejected by the town inspector, so I got them to sell it cheap. It was stale and hard and couldn't have been eaten the way it was, but look what happens when you put it in soup. I got the onions from the lady of the house three doors down - traded her some herbs I grew for them. The meat came from a chicken I found wandering about the garden."
"wandering about the garden."
"Milady?"
"O-oh yes. It's delicious,"
"Very,"
"So what did the Post lad have to say?"
"Oh, have you started working on another trade?"
"A fundamental principle of trading,"
"is to keep your distance from your partners."
"For trading to go smoothly, you must deal with many different partners, as it's impossible to predict when difficulties may arise. You must above all avoid any situation wherein a delivery failing to arrive would mean your ruin."
"Another."
"Chasing profit is a dangerous business. If you dream of great gains, you also expose yourself to great risks. Trading is a long-term enterprise. You must avoid risk,"
"He's a trustworthy man."
"Merchants can wear many masks."
"He seems a trustworthy man."
"The profit is reliable. I supply the money, and he chooses and sells the clothing. The profit comes to thirty or forty percent, which we split."
"What of the clothing? Where does it come from and via whom?"
"A famous town across the sea, he said. He'll use the trading company for the purchase, so there's nothing to worry about."
"And to whom will they be sold?"
"The same customers he's sold to before, so there's no problem there, either."
"I see..."
"Is there a problem?"
"Well, if you truly wish to know..."
"If there is, spit it out,"
"I'm sorry. If you believe there to be a problem, please tell me."
"Can this individual truly be trusted?"
"... Is there something suspicious?"
"'Suspicious' might be going too far, but it is strange."
"What's strange?"
"Milady, if I may..."
"What?"
"Trade is like that bowl."
"Profit is like its contents. Someone skillful like Bertra can extract greater profit than others. But no matter how hard she might try, the bowl can only be filled so much before it overflows, just as every trade has a limit to the amount of profit that can be made from it."
"Fundamentally, the amount of profit to be gained in a trade is always balanced between its participants."
"I know that. That's why Milton doesn't want to deal with the trading company anymore and was looking for someone like me."
"Which means that the company that normally does business with the Post house will see substantially less profit. Do you think they will look kindly upon this? Trading companies are cunning and sly."
"Huh?"
"Oh. Don't worry about that. It's the opposite."
"The opposite?"
"Yes. The Jones Company that introduced me to Milton did so in order to increase their own profit. Milton was buying clothes from another company and selling them on, but the Jones Company wants his sales expertise for themselves. In exchange for switching sides, Milton had a condition: Find him a different source of funding."
"So the procurement comes via the Jones Company."
"That's right. Milton buys from the Jones Company, which helps them break into the clothing business. They establish a relationship with Milton. There's no downside for them at all. Of course"
"for Milton and me, there's nothing but upsides."
"Mm."
"It's delicious,"
"Well, if milady concludes as much, then..."
"If milady has come to said conclusion, then..."
"If you have something to say, I wish you'd say it."
"Not at all. There's little to be accomplished even if I did. I'm probably overthinking all this. After all, I'm not young anymore. It makes it all too easy for me to reflect on the things that went wrong for me in the past. And"
"you must be given a chance to grow up in your own way, milady. Or the legs you've worked so hard to acquire will weaken."
"A true merchant is one who can learn from her failures."
"You're assuming I'm going to fail."
"I did not say that,"
"I'm not an educated woman so such talk is beyond me, but I know my own work,"
"Right."
"Milady?"
"Good morning!"
"Ah, good morning, milady."
"Where's Olar?"
"Er... I believe he's on his usual walk through the marketplace."
"Well, then, I'd like some breakfast. Bread with a bit of cheese. And just a bit of wine."
"Well..."
"If you'll give me just a moment."
"Goodness, are you leaving so early?"
"I'm heading to the port. Tell Olar where I've gone."
"Very well, milady,"
"It's surprising... Somehow I've gotten used to seeing you in those clothes."
"I'm off,"
"Take care,"
"Right, this is everything! God be with you!"
"This is the last? Huh? Twenty?! It's fine! They should be there!"
"Right, I'll be off! We'll meet atop the hill! God be with you!"
"Ah-"
"Morning."
"And good morning to you."
"I'm glad I caught you in time."
"Ha-ha, I didn't dare to hope you'd come today,"
"Mind walking with me?"
"Not at all."
"nobility."
"So, about our recent discussion,"
"It something amusing to you?"
"Ah, apologies,"
"It just seemed mysterious to me, that's all."
"Mysterious?"
"Yes, mysterious. A year or two ago... or even just a short while ago, if you'd stood beside me and asked about 'our recent discussion,' my heart might well have thudded right out of my chest."
"Of course, I can't say my heart is exactly at ease right now, either,"
"My apologies for teasing you. Now then, what do you think of my business proposal?"
"I accept,"
"Truly?"
"I do not lie,"
"Thank you... very much."
"Of... of course,"
"I was up all night thinking about it, and I have decided to accept your proposal."
"I see... truly, my thanks to you."
"..."
"Still, between the buying and the selling of the clothing, is there truly no cause for worry?"
"No, the trading company that introduced you to me, Miss Fleur, is sincerely trying to cooperate with me, I'm sure."
"Can they be trusted? You don't imagine they're doing this merely to obstruct other companies?"
"Well, that's always a possibility, of course. But think of it this way: Clothes are light and can be packed very tightly aboard a ship. And the more you're moving, the lower your shipping expenses are per unit. But that's nothing if you fail to sell it. On the other hand, if you believe you can sell it all, then the more you can buy up the greater your profit margin, and because you're selling a lot, your profits are boosted yet again. The Jones Company is desperately trying to become the largest company at this port. Was your price beaten badly down?"
"Everyone's trying to get away with something. I can understand why you would be suspicious."
"Everyone - everyone! - is putting their own self-interest first. I'm no different, of course."
"If that's so-"
"It may sound like a poor joke, but this is truly all I can say-"
"-Please, at least trust me."
"... That's not a very convincing case."
"I know. I wasn't even able to get you to remember my face."
"Push, pull, push again... "Catch a butterfly, a cat, a hair, a fox..."
"I'll trust you, then."
"I shall rely on it."
"As will I,"
"I'd like to stay here, if possible."
"Surprisingly skillful words."
"The moment of falling is decided in the manner of parting."
"To feign interest so that I lie awake all night unable to think of anything but you?"
"If my hand is so easy to read, perhaps I'm unfit to be a merchant."
"Oh? I haven't even yet asked when next we might meet."
"In the evening, three days hence."
"I shall be waiting."
"If you'll excuse me,"
"In the evening, three days hence."
"In the evening, three days hence."
"Milady,"
"Milady!"
"Why must you yell so?"
"If yelling is what convinces you to listen, then yell I shall!"
"Yes, yes... it's just, the weather is so fine..."
"Milady,"
"Don't be so angry at me. I hate being like this myself, you know."
"Milady, as your ledger keeper and your tutor, I must speak my mind."
"Mm,"
"Be careful not to misunderstand the truth."
"I don't particularly wish to say this, but the master of the Post family came to prosperity by wooing the widow of the former lord. Rumors swirl that the disposition of all the family lands and wealth is decided within ladies' bedchambers. What I mean is-"
"What you mean is that Milton, being of that blood, is an unparalleled rake."
"After all, he is Milton, a man who trades with the nobility. Surely it's so, is it not? And I'm a mere girl."
"... I would not go that far, but..."
"It's fine. I know it myself. My feet aren't on the ground. It feels like if I were to jump from the windowsill there, I could just fly away,"
"But business is business. People change when profit is involved. Isn't that right?"
"Anyway, you can't put any trust in what someone says with their mouth. That's-"
"The mark of a true merchant, milady."
"I'll do it. I'll do it, all right? So would you kindly leave me to it?"
"It was the same for me."
"Really?"
"Of course. There's so much to remember, and trying to pack it all into my head, it felt like I was going to forget my own name,"
"But you've got nothing to complain about given that fine tutor of yours. Us apprentices get nothing but the strap or the rolling pin if we're unlucky enough to work for a baker."
"Olar... er, I mean, that 'fine tutor' said the same thing. I was so sure he was making it up!"
"This is from when I was whipped. I was learning to write, using shells on slate, and I'd gotten white all the way up to my elbow. The dust was beat clean off me."
"And here's where I burned myself with a candle trying to keep awake late one night."
"Some of the other apprentices seemed to be born clever, so I swore I wouldn't lose to them, which led me to do such things. Even now I'm a bit proud of it. If you work hard, you can succeed. On the other hand..."
"Sorry, I talk too much."
"We can't hold a candle to monks,"
"Unlike them, we merchants are filled with worldly desires."
"Even monks have the desire for their own salvation, or if not that, for the salvation of others, I should think."
"You might be right. If so, perhaps we're similar to those monks. Instead of a land without sickness or death, we work for a land without loss or bankruptcy,"
"'Twould be paradise,"
"Might I ask you something?"
"Please do,"
"What is it that makes you work so hard?"
"Ha, that's what you want to know?"
"I-is it such a strange thing?"
"Not at all... I understand the sentiment. I've wanted to ask my own master the same thing, truthfully. But at the moment I'm just one merchant in a vast ocean. Asking me why I work so hard to accomplish so little makes me feel rather embarrassed."
"I was the fourth son of a poor farmer's family, so I'm fortunate to even be alive. I left home with nowhere to go and nowhere to return to, and when this trading company brought me in, I had no choice but to cling to them. Although in honesty many apprentices did not make it."
"And yet if you want to know why I've endured it... there are many reasons, of course, though I don't really know which one might be the truest one. Part of it was that this was the only path open to me. But... hmm..."
"I can't really explain it,"
"But it's a feeling of anticipation."
"Anticipation,"
"Forget I said anything. I'm far too young to answer your question."
"It was a strange question. My apologies."
"Not at all."
"Thank you,"
"About the clothing purchase."
"Talk has progressed to the request of a purchase representative for the company."
"Have you talked to any of the companies you're connected with about starting new business?"
"Yes. That's why I had to show a big profit."
"And that's why you're so late?"
"Yes. So I won't be able to visit that house for a while. I'm not saying I forced the goods off on anyone, but I sold all the way down to the gardener's apprentice, so unless someone suddenly gets fat, they won't need more clothing for a while."
"In that case, what you're saying is that when next we go to sell clothes we've bought up, even in the worst case, even if you feel like you're utterly desperate, we won't lose money?"
"That's right. Of course..."
"Of course, I truly did feel desperate. If possible, I'd like to avoid that,"
"that"
"You're quite worried over, aren't you, Miss Fleur?"
"Huh?"
"I had debt, you know."
"Debt."
"Yes. It was another company that first took notice of my talents, you see. But they took advantage of my position and used me terribly. But it's the current company that lent me money for room and board. I suppose it's good luck, but I can't really thank them."
"Work is precious. But if a man works during the day, he must rest at night. That's the way of the world that God established. And yet there are those who work day and night, on holy days, on days of celebration, on days of mourning. Even though to do so means borrowing the power of the devil."
"And that devil's name is usury."
"Yes, I will return. Yes, all well be well. Yes, I will protect you."
"If I-"
"If you?"
"If I said I wanted interest, what were you going to do?"
"I knew you were a kind soul the first time I saw you."
"-!"
"Ppeople change when there's money at stake. Su-surely you know that much."
"Yes, of course. That's why you can see someone's true nature when profit is involved. And,"
"you aren't going to charge interest. I would be quite certain of that even if you were wearing that scarf of yours. I would know."
"I... won't take interest. I promised we'd split the profits, after all."
"As a merchant, I must keep my promises."
"We haven't signed any contracts."
"Perhaps now we can speak in specifics."
"I do believe I can trust you."
"Now then, shall we discuss the styles and quantities of clothing?"
"Let's,"
"Mm."
"Rather impressive,"
"It's not bad?"
"Not at all. On the contrary, it's quite good. The whims of the nobility change very easily, but their basic preferences do not. The current fashion is for bright colors and delicate fabrics. Most impressively, he even has a grasp of textiles sourced from far away. All that matters now is how convincing he can manage to be."
"I've checked that already,"
"Next, there's the matter of the contract regarding the funding of the Post lad."
"... Is there yet some problem?"
"We cannot be too careful. If there is a mistake in this contract, we stand to lose all the profit we are going to such trouble to gain."
"In the name of God. From Fleur von Eiterzental Bolan to Milton Post, a good man and true. These two, having met in trade by the grace of God, do now purpose to exchange via the Jones Company a quantity of fabrics of wool, linen, and silver, the cost of which shall be entirely borne by Bolan. However, five-tenths of this cost shall be counted as debt upon Post. Upon the purchase of these goods shall this debt be recorded. Upon this debt, Bolan pledges to hold no interest. Profits shall be split evenly. All purchased items shall be held under the ownership of Bolan. Concluded. God's blessing be upon this contract."
"About the amount we're loaning to Post."
"Half is fine,"
"thanks given for money lent"
"In that case, I have nothing else to say. We need only pray to God that all goes well."
"It'll be fine. We don't need to pray."
"You must not let your guard down. It is the nature of business to be unpredictable. Even if we do not make a single mistake, the ship could sink and our goods might never reach us, or bandits might attack while the goods are en route to their sale."
"Still, worrying over such things is for the servants. Milady would never get anywhere if she agonized over such things as I do."
"My old master was also an unpredictable sort. Rather, he made decisions his own way, and it was certain he could see things that I never did. Many were the times my worries came to nothing, it's true. There are different sorts of talent in this world... the sort that forges new paths and the sort that follows those paths. There's a great difference 137/178 between the two. And milady..."
"You have the former."
"You'll embarrass me saying such things to my face. And I'm likely to become rather full of myself if you keep it up."
"If you have that much self-awareness, then I have little to worry about. And as I said, worrying is my job, not yours. Caution is part of that. And of course Bertra will also be on hand."
"Risking Bertra's ire is the second worst thing I might do,"
"And what's the first?"
"The worst is making her cry."
"Please stop making such fun of me!"
"It seems I've nothing I ought add this time,"
"And that might be the happiest outcome of all."
"God's blessings be upon us."
"Will this do?"
"Well, this is certainly a relief."
"A relief...?"
"Yes. I was mostly certain that you wouldn't assume a verbal contract would be sufficient - not that I don't trust you, Miss Fleur. But since you're the one lending your precious money, and money is life. If it had remained a verbal contract..."
"Like any knight, I'm ready to lay down my life."
"Ah!"
"Still, this is very generous. No merchant is unhappy at being trusted. And this amount... I'll have to work like mad to be worthy of it."
"An old veteran knight who saw many battles once told me that it's only when you have no worries that you can reach your full potential."
"And worries can be banished with trust."
"Next, it'll be my turn to banish your worries. I will sell it all!"
"Sell it all! Buy everything!"
"Now, let us turn to the purchase."
"Woolen fabric from Lubick, thin, in various colors, twenty-two pieces. Hempen robes stamped with the mark of the Yirin Craftsmen's Guild, in various colors, twenty pieces. Silver jewelry from Chuaifult..."
"I don't know if I'll be able to get twenty-two pieces from Lubick right now. Their wool is very popular at the moment. There's no problem with supply, but they know what the current market here is like so they're keeping the price high. I might be able to get ten or fifteen. They won't be gold threaded, so shall I put the order in for that?"
"I can't move on the price. Just get as many as you can in that range."
"Understood."
"The pieces from Yirin... these colors shouldn't be a problem, and at this price we should be able to buy ones with the guild seal on them. As for the Chuaifult silver... do you have a particular shop in mind?"
"Not particularly, so long as they all include either pearl or coral."
"I see... so their amber's no longer moving, eh?"
"I wouldn't go that far."
"Understood. I'll do my very best to obtain the listed goods. Now, if you'll both sign here."
"Please confirm the goods one more time,"
"Is this correct?"
"Very well. I'll now sign. And... in the name of God..."
"Our company has entered into a contract with you both to obtain these goods on your behalf. May God's blessing be upon us."
"We leave it in your capable hands,"
"It will probably take around two weeks to procure the order."
"So quickly?"
"If we had to go to each town separately, it would take years. But the wonderful thing about the items written here is that procuring them is much simpler. They're all items that have been stockpiled in warehouses here and there nearby, and none of them will be difficult to find. Hence, two weeks. Of course, that's provided there are no delays with the ships."
"Let us hope all goes well,"
"Careful - if you overindulge, you may find yourself stumbling."
"Although truth be told, I couldn't sleep at all last night. I stayed awake by candlelight, thinking of profit."
"Twenty percent in one trade. Double the money in four, right?"
"Possibly, but I wasn't assuming that everything will proceed according to plan."
"Do you suppose the Jones Company is up to something sly? Or are you talking about your debt?"
"There was also the possibility I wouldn't have been able to gain your trust."
"... Add that in, then."
"It might just be my prejudice to imagine trading companies to have a vicious side."
"For good or ill... they will do anything that brings them profit."
"... Sometimes even things that drive one to rage."
"I've thought about that. They might've been more aggressive, like demanding a higher commission or worse conditions for the contract. And yet they were very accommodating. When you're a company as large as they are, there comes a time when you must worry about your reputation."
"So we should be able to worry less, then?"
"And I did receive terms so favorable from you I yet find them hard to believe."
"So, here we begin,"
"here,"
"This is the way for merchants, surely."
"Let us hope all goes well."
"Milady,"
"Thank you,"
"I'm off to make money,"
"Excuse me, is Mr. Post in?"
"Oh, Milton? He just came back from lunch. He's up the stairs on the fourth story."
"Thanks,"
"... Hello there,"
"Look-"
"The ship?"
"Where is Mr. Hans?"
"Hans!"
"Ah, your order? It's arrived."
"Your goods have safely arrived at the docks. The winds were uncertain and it looked as though they might be delayed, but fortunately our company was able to live up to its reputation."
"So-"
"We'd like to take delivery of them. Will today be possible?"
"The goods are secured in the rear loading dock. I've already asked to have the order document brought up. We must make sure there aren't any discrepancies between your order and the goods, after all."
"Everything fit in one crate?"
"May I open the box?"
"We'll reuse the nails, you see. Although when we want to appear prosperous, sometimes we just break the crates open."
"What?"
"What is going on here?"
"What do you mean, 'What?'"
"Do not joke with me!"
"I'm sorry, a joke? No."
"This... this order is an outrage!"
"An outrage? Not at all. I swear in God's name that we have committed no errors. These are the items you ordered in the quantities you specified."
"This... this can't be..."
"The goods are exactly as stated on the order."
"That's absurd!"
"That's the problem with nobility; they always want to duel. Unfortunately we are but merchants. Contracts on paper are everything to us. Surely even you can understand that."
"silver,"
"amber."
"A contract is a contract,"
"Now, if you please, the payment."
"My thanks,"
"The clothes,"
"They aren't all dark colors."
"Like silver turned to amber, our hopes have turned to trash."
"That's-"
"... How much do you think we can sell them for?"
"..."
"Even if a few of the pieces have some value, the rest are essentially worthless. If the fabric isn't poor quality, such dark colors are fit for funerals and not much else."
"But if we can make back forty percent, that's good enough, is it not? We'll just need to find trades that'll double our money in four deals, then do that four times, and we'll be back to where we started."
"Stupid."
"Mil-"
"There is nothing to be done."
"There is nothing to be done. He was very thorough."
"I'm sorry."
"By my guess, the clothing is worth about half what you paid for it. But our man Post's estimate is probably more accurate, since I don't keep up on the latest fashions. Still, I must admit I'm impressed the company had these clothes stored away for so long. It's true, though, there was once a time when dark colors like these were quite popular,"
"Such dark colors are fit for funerals and not much else."
"Still, it's fortunate that you did not take on any debt to buy these. You won't owe interest, nor are you facing immediate ruin. The clothes that will sell will sell, so to turn them into money... unfortunately, I'm afraid you'll have no choice but to do the hard work yourself."
"... I'm so sorry,"
"Perhaps you should rest for a while. Miss Bertra, if you would..."
"...?"
"-!"
"May we speak for a moment?"
"You and Mr. Post - I cannot imagine you failed to draw up a contract to provide him with funds, correct?"
"What of it?"
"Post had no assets, which meant you were the investor and he was responsible for sales."
"S-so?"
"In that case, I can't imagine you assumed all the risk. You must have let him take on some. So how much? One hundred fifty percent? Two hundred?"
"I'm not like you. I'm not that greedy."
"How much, then?"
"Half. Because I trusted him,"
"Goodness. It seems you've taken quite a loss, then."
"I'd like to purchase your share of the contract you signed with Mr. Post."
"Wha-?"
"This sort of thing happens all the time. It's a simple transfer of liability. Whether or not you asked for interest, it's clear that Mr. Post owes you a debt. And I want to buy that debt. At a price that will leave you losing absolutely nothing."
"Perhaps I should make the offer more attractive. After all, you'll have to live the rest of your life somehow. With that... sweetness of yours."
"What about using that money as a dowry and finding yourself a husband? I'd be more than happy to help-"
"... Very well."
"When you've fallen as far as you wish to fall, feel free to knock on my company's door with that hand. No harm will come to you."
"Now, if you'll excuse me."
"Don't hesitate to call on me when you change your mind."
"Milton!"
"Milton!"
"Milton... It's Milton. He's..."
"Check the storehouse. The door was broken."
"Most of the clothes in the storehouse are gone."
"Milady."
"What happened?"
"Milady."
"That was a man from the Jones Company? So... the one who took the clothes was..."
"Milady."
"Milady. You must be resolved!"
"Re... solved?"
"Even so. You must resolve whether you will be ignored, robbed, kicked, smeared with mud, or stand up on your own strength and walk forward."
"Milady!"
"Milady. I brought you 165/178 into the world of merchants because I pitied you. Because your former role was simply to exist, you were washed away and had no choice but to rely on others. I wanted to give you the chance to make your own fate, to stand on your own two feet and walk,"
"No... I cannot be dishonest about my feelings now. The truth is... I wanted you to take revenge for me."
"... What?"
"Before I worked for your former husband, I worked at a famous trading company. But before that, I was something of a noble myself."
"And I swore that I'd surpass all other merchants and make those perfect nobles fall to their knees before me."
"Then before I knew it, I had gotten old. Too old to sit on some golden throne. On top of that, the man I'd taken as my master had ruined himself. I had no children. And... selfishly, I suppose, I wanted to entrust my dream to you."
"This is all due to my selfishness."
"Miss Bertra. Fetch some coin and my coat."
"So long as I am alive, I will not allow you to suffer, milady. If I may be allowed to atone for my sins, by force if necessary..."
"Milady."
"Please refrain from selfishness."
"..."
"Do not mock me!"
"Do not mock me! I am sick of this! I am sick of letting myself be carried along by life! Your dream? Don't be absurd! I am not your child! I will decide for myself where to go - because I have nowhere to go home!"
"So, what will you do?"
"I'm going to get it back."
"Get what back?"
"The clothes. No..."
"... My resolve. Bertra!"
"Bring me all the money I have left and my coat. And my sword."
"Milady-"
"I thought I told you to stop calling me 'milady,'"
"I'm going to get it back. If he's using a wagon, we have more than enough time to catch him on horseback. It's not hard to guess where he's heading. Not many roads lead to the noble quarter."
"Is this what you want?"
"It is. I'm going to be a merchant. I'm going to regain my resolve."
"I'd rather be shivering in bed, neither going nor retreating, hoping this all was a dream. But when you die, I'd be lost, and then Bertra would go next and finally I."
"To the Jones Company, I mean. I'll bet they'd pay a tidy sum."
"So I have to go forward. And anyway, I know now."
"Know... what?"
"I know what's at the end of the path of profit that merchants walk, merchants who believe in nothing, for whom money is their only solace."
"If there's something out there that will bring me peace, I want to chase it. Olar-"
"Yes?"
"I want you to help me. I won't cause you any more trouble."
"Very well."
"Bertra,"
"I'm off."
"Olar, do you have your sword?"
"If he's as you saw him before, I think we'll be fine!"
"Are you quite sure about the way?"
"There were only a few nobles that Milton talked about! I can't imagine he'll go somewhere unfamiliar if he needs to sell in a hurry, which means this must be the way!"
"Milady!"
"Milady!"
"I told you to stop calling me-"
"Olar?"
"Milady, look!"
"So that was the cause of the hole."
"It seems so."
"Milady."
"... So you... caught up with me..."
"... Even I... thought... I was being too selfish..."
"Help... me..."
"It was just... panic... Th-they came to ask you... about my debt, didn't... they?"
"I was... so scared, so I..."
"I swear... I'll never betray you again. So..."
"So help you?"
"P-please... I beg you."
"We're both nobles... aren't we?"
"... Fleur?"
"Fleu..."
"Olar,"
"What of the cargo?"
"It seems intact. The contents are safe. If it had fallen in the mud it would've been all over."
"I see."
"You said it yourself,"
"Black clothes won't sell unless there's... a funeral."
"So that's why... I thought you had such a lovely face."
"I see... ha-ha..."
"Sh-shit! I was pretending to be near death, but you've found me out!"
"I-I never hesitated a second to deceive you! You, who couldn't... rid yourself of the weakness of the nobility... you'll never be a merchant! You have to delight in deception, have no conscience, fear no God-"
"Hey."
"... If you don't hurry, I'll die before you can end me."
"... Good. That's good..."
"A good merchant has neither blood nor tears..."
"Olar!"
"Yes?"
"Get the goods on the horses. As soon as we're home, we'll make the black clothes and amber jewelry ready for sale."
"Understood."
"He may have been cast out of his house, but this noble son died in an accident. For the funeral, people will need black clothing and amber jewelry the color of earth."
"Yes, mil-"
"I am no longer a noble. I am a merchant. My name..."
"... Is Eve."
"Wha-?"
"Eve Bolan, the merchant."