
"Ah, Sir Knight. You seem to be in a fine mood."
"By the way, is the priest inside?"
"Someone said a horse-drawn carriage arrived where the children play on the hill, so I thought, maybe it's the one the priest mentioned."
"..."
"Goodness,"
"But you know, the children said it was a pitch-black carriage... As if it was haunted. I wonder if it's all right..."
"What will you do, Sir Knight? Coming with me?"
"Reverend, it seems that a horse-drawn carriage has-"
"Reverend,"
"Woof!"
"... Hunh!?"
"Ah, Miss Rifkin... Ah, er... Ha-ha..."
"Oh, I am not upset."
"Ah, so, what is it? If it's preparations for the guild's Guardian Saint Festival, I'm hiring Mr. Botz to take care of it..."
"Oh, not that. There seems to be a horse-drawn carriage coming into town. I thought this might be the one you mentioned so I thought I'd let you know."
"... Carriage?"
"Yes. You mentioned it yourself. Something about having been called to somewhere a bit far off..."
"..."
"I thought it'd be next w... Ah, er, sorry, if you'll excuse me!"
"Errr... clothes, food, ah, I'd better have a book of scripture, too. Also a prayer book... ah? Maybe I should bring several pairs of boots? But I haven't worn boots since way back... I wonder why..."
"Ahh, er, bring the letter, er, and then, and then..."
"It must be nice to be so carefree, Enek!"
"Eve Bolan."
"Ah... err..."
"Ahem. I am Norah Arendt."
"So she really..."
"Huh?"
"Nothing. It seems best if I take care of all the necessities. If you get lonely at night, all you need bring is a book of scripture. There are other places we're stopping at, just like the letter said. We're leaving today."
"It's from a desert country."
"Anxious to be heading out?"
"Hm?"
"It's not often that a town priest leaves on a journey, after all."
"Quite a decision for you to make. Nyohhira is at the far end of the world. Even I hesitated."
"Certainly, I was a little nervous about leaving town,"
"Even though in the past, I wanted to go out, out, when I couldn't..."
"..."
"Did you meet her in that town?"
"No, it was in Ruvinheigen."
"Oh? You're a former nun?"
"No..."
"The Church took care of me, but that is all. I was like a scared little lamb."
"I was a shepherdess."
"That's how I met both of them... Or I should say, I was saved by them... or perhaps dragged by them into conflict?"
"The latter is likely more accurate."
"Miss Bolan, where did you meet those two?"
"Eve is fine."
"Miss Eve."
"It was farther north. They dropped in to visit along their way, as it turned out."
"Is that so?"
"So you were a timid lamb."
"Hm?"
"I was a wounded wolf."
"That's why..."
"..."
"... I make a poor cat burglar."
"You see, once a sheep's attention is taken by something, all else flies out of her head."
"Hmph. Quite some nerve she has, calling us here like this."
"Using me as an errand girl for them takes no small amount of courage in itself. Can you believe it? There's going to be three more women riding that wagon to Nyohhira with us."
"Oh!"
"Shocking, isn't it? I'm quite wrathful over it. That horse-drawn wagon behind me is full of valuable clothing and jewels. You're Norah, right? You can borrow whatever you like and dress up however you please."
"Even sheep must not be pampered all the time, you see."
"..."
"... I wonder what this scent is?"
"Medicine."
"Medicine...?"
"Numerous alchemists live in this town. Apparently the woman we're picking up collects them."
"Rare or not, there'll be enough of those scents in Nyohhira to make you sick of them."
"Eh, is that so?"
"Nyohhira is a famous land of springs. In those mountains, there are baths everywhere the eye can see. Just picture a bathtub as large as a lake. The whole place smells much like this."
"Aye."
"I am Dian Rubens. You may call me Diana."
"Incidentally..."
"Are the two of you friends, I wonder?"
"Does it look like that to you?"
"Not really."
"It's just, I could hardly believe that man capable enough to handle more than one more liaison, so you must be friends, I thought."
"I must agree on that point."
"But of course."
"I myself found it rather mysterious seeing you, I should say,"
"You could say that... I am their elder in terms of life experience, perhaps."
"...?"
"Are either of you married?"
"I'm busy with financial matters."
"Heh."
"People in town have made advances, but..."
"Really?"
"Not because you got in the way?"
"Certainly he's always been protecting me."
"Right, Enek?"
"Woof."
"So, you do have a husband, then?"
"I did once."
"So, when they came to my town, I had more excitement than I'd had in years. Was it like that for you?"
"Does annoyance count as part of excitement?"
"If excitement includes envy enough to dazzle the eyes,"
"Heh-heh. So in the end, you got called over here, too. That's just, oh..."
"Annoying."
"I'm envious."
"But I think that innocent charm might put them in a tough spot."
"Only one of them will be in a tough spot, I assure you."
"But that's why I find their having a proper ceremony to be rather unexpected."
"Ha-ha. I thought the same thing! It seemed too embarrassing for them to actually do."
"Very much so. I'm all for being decisive, but to call us here, too..."
"And there's two more guests after this?"
"Yes. He's a complete fool of a man."
"A fool of a man, yes, that expression fits perfectly."
"Ah, incidentally, as their senior in life matters, what conversations have you had with them?"
"You want to hear?"
"We have plenty of time."
"This is a tale of love known to precious few in my town..."
"Goodness, it's really quite something."
"Oh?"
"Those two, I mean."
"Ahh..."
"That's true."
"But I do find myself envious..."
"Oh, really?"
"I'd think you'd be able to find plenty of good matches. I'm sure you have more than a few matchmakers trying to meddle?"
"And yet-?"
"None of them seemed quite right."
"May I... speak to you about him, then?"
"It's not Mr. Lawrence, you know."
"Then, it really is him?"
"It's not that I wish Enek were human."
"Did I mention that I was a shepherd?"
"I heard as much during our introductions."
"Ah, right... Er... So you see, Enek has been with me the whole time... And it's thanks to him that we were able to overcome so much... But still, I don't wish him to be a human."
"Miss Diana... You're the same as Miss Holo, aren't you?"
"I am not a wolf, though."
"It seems I've let my secret out."
"Or perhaps it's from your long association with the good knight there?"
"So you might have supposed that my thinking to bringing Enek with me was in that sense."
"In that sense,"
"Yes, in that sense."
"And? Did you imagine that if you asked the great wisewolf, she just might give you the answer?"
"I will do no such thing."
"I think, if I did ask, it would put a genuinely conflicted look on her face."
"Why, then?"
"I wanted to see them again."
"Just to see them?"
"come,"
"Just to meet them."
"grrr"
"People don't come to church because they expect God to solve all their problems."
"But people come to church nonetheless."
"Come on up,"
"I can't really put it in words, though."
"No, I understand very well."
"It's been several decades since I left the town I was in. But yes... I think of it like a pilgrimage. It's surely the same for Lady Eve, who's far more wolfish than even the wisewolf herself."
"To think, having to go together to a church like this."
"This really is quite fun."
"Those two, having a marriage ceremony..."
"It makes me want to laugh."
"Enek!"
"I shall leave the males to you."
"Gracious... What on earth is she thinking...?"
"Ah, Mr. Lawrence?"
"Is it lunchtime already?"
"No, I wanted to ask you about this."
"She pretty much twisted my arm into writing it..."
"Oh, I'm not criticizing you for that. I'm sure Holo asked you because she thought you'd never refuse."
"More than that, I want to ask you about Holo's state when she made you write it."
"Miss Holo's...?"
"Yeah. Was she angry? Did she say anything?"
"That's..."
"That's?"
"She was smiling."
"Smiling?"
"Yes. Er, the addresses for these letters..."
"Yes. They're to the women Holo met on our journeys. Of course, you remember Elsa, but I'm sure you remember Eve, too, yes?"
"For her to write those letters and send them against your wishes, I believe you must have done something to anger her, Mr. Lawrence, but..."
"Err... but she's often smiling when she's really angry."
"Is that so? But I had the feeling she was genuinely smiling... I should say buoyant even..."
"Buoyant, you say?"
"Ah... there's no mistaking it. She's angry."
"Fool."
"This is coming along quite well, though."
"Ah yes. One more pass by the craftsmen, and it'll be perfect. There are a few things I hope to iron out before they come, though."
"That's a big help. You're very precise, too. Bit of a waste for the splitting image of a budding theologian."
"I think architecture and theology are very similar. Each requires a blueprint, raw materials, and a logical way of putting it all together."
"And neither can be built in a day?"
"Quite so."
"Well, you can leave it like this for now and take a bath before dinner."
"Understood."
"Er... Ought I not to have written that?"
"It's quite all right. Though there were a few places where turns of phrases were used improperly."
"Er-"
"I'll correct them in a note later."
"Please!"
"It will be a little longer, so wait just a moment, would you?"
"You say it as if you're the one cooking it,"
"missing"
"close resemblance."
"But what are you doing roasting chestnuts like this? Spring's a little ways off yet."
"I'm getting sick of salted meat and fish every day."
"The first year here, you kept saying how salty things were so tasty..."
"Too much of a good thing."
"You should just ask Col to hunt something, then. Apparently he can use a bow now. Seems he took down a deer for Old Man Roz not long ago. If you boil the liver, I hear it's delicious with ale chilled in the snow."
"I have not had any appetite for that of late."
"So roasted chestnuts?"
"They're good when dipped in currant honey, but someone does not seem to buy very much."
"I'm already under a mountain of debt. Once we're making money I'll buy as much as you like."
"But..."
"... Since you're not feeling well, we need to think a little about what goes on the menu."
"The food you make when I'm ill is only ever distasteful."
"But it works, doesn't it?"
"It makes a person think that eating it cannot be borne forever. In that sense, it works very well."
"But if not for that, one would want to be a patient forever."
"thank you"
"Shall I merely nurse you, then?"
"Thank you,"
"True purpose? It's to call friends of ours over, is it not?"
"Concerning the rationing of kindling, Mr. Lawrence, don't you have too much as it is? You've been buying lumber from me since autumn rolled around."
"Are you saying I should turn the lumber I bought for construction into kindling? If I was making as much as Master Morris, I might be able to do that, but..."
"The amount of lumber Mr. Lawrence purchased was approved by this council. Following precedent, the rationing of kindling is an unrelated matter. Any questions?"
"Then, I think we should agree to ration kindling in proportion to the rise of its purchasing cost."
"Very well. The council is adjourned,"
"You must be thinking something bad. I can tell from your face."
"You do understand that I'm not going to go out on a journey while I'm building something like that, don't you?"
"Journeys are not the only adventures."
"You're in no mood for an adventure?"
"Let us just say my hands are full at the moment."
"People will laugh when they see."
"Let them laugh. It only means they are jealous."
"What did you come all the way down here for, though? I said I'd be back early today, didn't I?"
"Hanna went to pluck some herbs."
"So?"
"Aye. After you left, someone called for the lad and he went out, too."
"So you got lonely?"
"I procured wine as well."
"No doubt that's what you were really after."
"Heh-heh."
"Honestly..."
"Huh?"
"Did Holo chase you off?"
"Hmm..."
"It's not too hot?"
"I'll have to give it a sweep."
"Your head fills itself with bad thoughts."
"You want to eat honey-preserved currants, right? I need to make some money, then."
"I can get both honey and currants with my own paws."
"Not that you've ever done it. Why not learn from Miss Hanna?"
"There are things one cannot grasp no matter how hard one tries."
"For example?"
"For example?"
"For example, a rainbow."
"Would you stop diving in like that? You'll mess up the stone arrangement."
"If they come apart that easily, arrange them more solidly next time."
"Like certain friends of ours."
"Fool."
"Soak yourself to the shoulders already. Wine for you?"
"Aye."
"On second thought, I shall have mead, the same as you."
"After all, that drink could be even sweeter."
"You're too extreme in your tastes."
"Ohh? But if it wasn't for this, I could hardly spend time with a fool like you."
"Goodness... but, I have to do something about these cups..."
"Mm?"
"The cups. Wooden cups are convenient, but..."
"They're not good enough?"
"They're cheap, no two ways about it. Silver cups are the top class, but..."
"I would think it of little import to one who cares only about what's inside, like you do."
"Well, that's why you picked me, isn't it?"
"... Ha!"
"Well, 'tis pointless just thinking about it, I think."
"Ah?"
"Are the guests you invite here really so meager as to pay attention only to material things?"
"I suppose not,"
"Besides, I think 'tis meals that are more important. That fellow who you get along with poorly, what's his name..."
"Morris?"
"Aye. That's the one. The meals you get there are, ah, second-rate."
"I know because I heard from the birds and foxes that fish through their trash. Right now, the best is the one under the sign with the two oaks."
"Jeck's place, eh...? That place is certainly thriving, though its facilities are fairly poor..."
"I think the meals are the secret."
"So then, you."
"Yeah?"
"Could you not arrange a great and fine banquet for the saint's festival?"
"A-aye..."
"Why so hesitant? Anyway, you had better prepare things properly. It has to be magnificent. You understand, do you not?"
"In these matters, first impressions are very important. If you surprise them at the start, the fish tales later will be even bigger. I've used this technique for a very long time. Once you overwhelm your opponent, they'll rarely defy you even if you let up later, you see."
"Now hold on, Holo."
"Mm?"
"Now, Holo..."
"What do you suppose you're doing!?"
"Goodness..."
"I must be strict in telling my guests not to misbehave. The damage would not be trivial, would it?"
"Indeed. Ah, now then, you..."
"Hm?"
"What was it? Weren't you going to ask me something?"
"No, it's nothing..."
"Mm? Well, that's how it is. 'Twill be fun, will it not?"
"'Twill be fun...?"
"Still..."
"Now, who to invite, huh...?"
"Weren't you invited?"
"If only Holo just went and picked them all up..."
"That being the case, if there's something you want to eat, please say it."
"Anything is fine."
"Truly?"
"It's better to be very certain before you leap."
"Right. Could you write what you want on this?"
"I am not so much of a fool as that."
"After all, if you bite down on your prey till it perishes, you cannot play with it later."
"Will you still be able to pay my salary, I wonder?"
"If things turn desperate, I shall claim my salary in food."
"Sounds like a fine plan."
"Ink!"
"fire water,"
"the water of life,"
"Where am I going to buy peacock...?"
"if possible,"
"fish tail."
"Thanks to the season, this one's relatively easy to do, but..."
"Where did she learn about oranges and lemons?"
"You can do basically anything if you're cooking meat. "For example, roast pig."
"You have not forgotten the taste of the roast pig you and I ate back then,"
"Eh? Miss Annie?"
"I mean, it's been so long and it neatly solves that problem..."
"So could I have you ask her for me?"
"..."
"Also, what's happening with the craftsmen arrangements?"
"Based on the letter I received yesterday, there's nothing else left to do. They'll arrive in a few days' time, so I think we should get ready for them."
"Understood. Besides that, ah yes, we'll need bedding and so on for the guests... Is Eve really going to come? If she really does, we can't be having her sleep on a bed of straw, can we...?"
"How about going to Mr. Morris and borrowing some things?"
"Ugh."
"I'll think about it..."
"Besides that, how will you pick them up? If it's by carriage, we should make arrangements as early as possible, but we don't really know when they will arrive..."
"Ah! That's right!"
"If we're considering escorts, too, how about we ask Mr. Luward and his men? You're probably inviting them anyway?"
"We can do that."
"I'll add an attachment to your invitation letter, then. Perhaps we can manage to send a letter to Lenos to Miss Eve and the others? Miss 81/193 Eve is surely accustomed to traveling, so she'll probably gather information and make preparations there."
"I'll entrust all those things to you."
"Understood."
"I do not mind it being lively."
"I was invited, so why are you so surprised?"
"It would seem our guests are on their way, safe and sound."
"You supposed poorly,"
"And yet, there is still time, is there not? You should focus on recuperating till then."
"She is fairly angry about something, it would seem."
"Oh, aye?"
"Eve's angry, is she?"
"The fool still understands nothing."
"More importantly, how are things going with the business?"
"It's getting there. I'd say the skeleton's all finished and eight tenths of the meat is on, too. We should be getting the fine decorations and fixtures bit by bit as the snow clears."
"Indeed. A pity I cannot watch the work in progress."
"Go one step at a time. Sometimes your eyes see what is far off with surprising accuracy, but you also miss things right under your nose. 'Tis not so?"
"..."
"'Tis not so?"
"That's right."
"Aye."
"But."
"And yet your penchant for overlooking what is at your feet has led to your picking up some unexpectedly joyful things yes?"
"Huh?"
"It's nothing,"
"More importantly, you, what's happening with that?"
"That, is it?"
"Aye, will it be in time?"
"trained"
"I'm confident the appraisal and supply of the goods will be worthy of a top-rank merchant."
"But those appraisals have gotten us into trouble more than once."
"It's like a stone wall. We wouldn't be here if it was any other way,"
"Are you not the type to keep breaking stone walls?"
"If you didn't like it, you should've gotten out of the bath."
"Once soaked, I cannot get out of the bath without getting cold."
"Thus I should just soak in the water, at least till spring comes and it becomes warm outside."
"Ahh, that was delightful."
"But I feel as if I have been soaking just a trifle too much of late."
"My apologies."
"So, about that..."
"Aye...?"
"Want a preview? I was thinking that the banquet wouldn't be a bad place for its debut."
"Indeed. I mind not."
"Now that I'm warm, I've become sleepy"
"Mm? What is it?"
"Pick me up."
"Aren't you bringing your wolfishness to tears?"
"If I cry, will you console me?"
"What are you doing?"
"I was just thinking, look at how far I've come."
"Is that a voice of mourning I hear?"
"..."
"Only because you made me show off."
"Heh-heh."
"Your own business, something you've gained and lost before."
"Are you giving up on your dream?"
"It would have been nice if your master could have seen this, too,"
"Well, he was an eccentric man. He'd probably complain about all sorts of things."
"Do you want to go find him?"
"Why would I?"
"All I have to do is have a business so big he'll have to take notice, after all."
"..."
"I'm heading out for a bit,"
"Before that, I need an establishment no one's going to laugh at."
"They shall not laugh."
"They absolutely shall not laugh."
"That might be a problem in itself."
"But even these things can happen if you live long enough."
"'Tis all thanks to me."
"I do not deny it."
"But 'tis thanks to you that I am so happy now, too."
"I won't deny that either, you know,"
"Everyone is here!"
"Because the sky has been nothing but clouds, 'tis making my eyes blink."
"Are you all right?"
"I just wanted you to know if there are tears in my eyes 'tis not my doing."
"I hadn't noticed."
"Fool."
"Ah, right. Mr. Lawrence..."
"Mm?"
"Mr. Luward and the others should be bringing it up right about now, but where shall you present it? At the start of the banquet? Or here, perhaps?"
"Here's good. That's what it's for to begin with."
"I suppose so. Best to use it as a nice opening ceremony, then."
"You've come to rely on him quite a lot."
"Jealous?"
"As if I could lose to a little brat like that."
"Well, you have become a fair bit more plump of late."
"Fool."
"Ah, Mr. Luward and the others are coming! Er, did something happen?"
"But I wonder how it'll feel in the end?"
"It'll feel simple. Simple is best, after all."
"Indeed,"
"Invite me when you hold the celebration."
"Mr. Lawrence! Miss Holo!"
"It's been a while."
"A fine male you have become."
"Thank you very much."
"But you have become even more beautiful. Truly, among women, you are-"
"...?"
"Kufu."
"The luggage is over there?"
"Ah yes. Hey!"
"Young One."
"I was more worried about this than any other cargo escort job we've ever had."
"Should we put it up right now?"
"No, we'll do it once people come, right?"
"I think that's best. They've come all this way."
"Understood. Moizi and I have it here, so go ahead and unveil it."
"It came out nicely?"
"It made me tremble."
"Can we use that line as a testimonial?"
"How about ''Tis the finest bathhouse of the age, where even the hardy Myuri Mercenary Company feels at home'?"
"Oh, everyone has arrived!"
"Ah, that's right."
"Mm?"
"There is something I forgot to ask."
"What?"
"Aye. The name."
"Hm?"
"We decided on a name, didn't we? Er, well, certainly if you want to change it, it can still be changed... But didn't you like it? Spice and..."
"'Tis not that."
"That?"
"Honestly,"
"So you really had not noticed? I was beginning to think you simply pretended not to..."
"It can't be-"
"To the very end, you never actually asked why I invited them to a banquet,"
"Obviously I wish to brag!"
"What, the fire is not ready yet?"
"Is that what you should say while you're wringing water out of a robe right beside someone starting a fire?"
"I believe 'tis easier to light that fire with the heat of your anger."
"It really was just in the nick of time, though."
"Aye, thanks to a foolish merchant being unable to say no, we piled up too much heavy freight and ran late. We almost ended up having to sleep under the rain."
"We are profiting from it, though, after a fashion."
"pot"
"Indeed. Aye, baked. 'Tis a rather tasty-seeming scent."
"Since we're not in the woods, I'm not worried about attracting anything and everything, but I am concerned about mice."
"I thought it was dogs that liked the taste of salt,"
"Well, I do not think that will be a problem. Not many people dwell in a place like this. For that matter..."
"... What is a building doing here, anyway?"
"To begin with, how did you know about this place? When you realized rain might fall, you came straight here, did you not?"
"This one is mine."
"That's because I've been here before. At the time I was lost and just stumbled upon it."
"I wonder, was it already this worn out back then?"
"No. Buildings pile up damage when people don't live in them. It's right about three years since I came here."
"Meaning, there was someone living here at the time?"
"Yes. A rather eccentric man, too."
"He built a stone fort in a place like this and lived in it, so of course he was eccentric."
"Indeed... Well, that might be the case, but..."
"It sounds like quite a story."
"Not really, but..."
"You really do not speak much about your past."
"When tired on a journey, aren't funny stories better?"
"Salt never tastes better than when you are tired."
"This dagger's taken good care of me here and there."
"You see the words engraved here?"
"Ahh, where weally is somewhing?"
"So what is written on it?"
"God grant me mercy."
"God grant me mercy"
"Among the elderly, there are those who call these daggers 'misericordes,' meaning acts of mercy in an older tongue."
"Ha-ha. So you see, this dagger was handed down to me by just one such old man."
"I'm a traveling merchant who got lost! Just a traveling merchant!"
"A traveling merchant, you say?"
"By the grace of God. Good thing I didn't shoot you to death."
"Well, what are you doing? You got lost, didn't you?"
"At least let me treat you to a meal for your journey ahead, young man. Also, I have a favor to ask you."
"I am called Fried, entrusted with Rumut Fort by the command of Count Zenfel, honored lord of this castle."
"Having said so, it's been quite a while since I shot an arrow at someone. I'm thankful I didn't hit you."
"... Goodness, it's hard getting up the hill at my age."
"Hmm. I thought it might be my imagination, but you really don't look so good."
"Actually, my last proper meal was two nights ago."
"Hmph. That would do it. I must treat you to a feast, then. I have freshly ground pork and... Oh, come to think of it, Paule aid an egg by the ditch just this morning,"
"Over here."
"Yes, yes. Still fine for you to sit in, is it? It seems my skills haven't dulled yet."
"Well, you can rest easy. You and I are the only ones in this fort, after all."
"Have you always been here by yourself?"
"When this place was entrusted to me, I had five bold men under me. I was down one, then another, and finally, only I remained."
"Was that from battle?"
"Ha-ha-ha! If only! It's been ten years since this was entrusted to me. The only visitors are the ones who get lost!"
"Do be careful about supper. If you eat too much, you won't be able to leave."
"Aye. It's indeed tastier than when you're by yourself. Oh, don't hold back. You're young! Eat up! You've barely touched your ale."
"My, my, you certainly ate that,"
"Where did you come from?"
"What are you trading?"
"Where were you born?"
"Do you have a wife?"
"That was truly a splendid feast. No doubt I'd have needed a gold coin to eat like that at a traveler's inn."
"I see, I see. Ha-ha-ha."
"The wheat bread was splendid. The pork was of exceptional quality. But there's no land here to grow wheat, and you can't have enough feed for pigs and sheep on your own. What do you do about it all?"
"And... it has been several years since Count Zenfel..."
"Aye."
"It's been... six years, perhaps, since the last letter came? It came from a knight calling himself the count's nephew. Apparently the count was campaigning in distant lands, fell ill, and passed away. What a shame to lose him."
"The letter contained a will by the count, stating that he was entrusting this fort to me, to defend well this dominion. It also said the Duller Monastery would no doubt send whatever supplies I might lack. There are many who claim that the count was as upbeat as a poet singing a song, but he was very reliable in such matters."
"I left a village withering away to begin with. Over twenty years ago, I was a would-be mercenary while the fever of a great war laid waste to the world. I gained a fief from the count during that time. He truly was a fine man to serve."
"They say... it is only in a time of war that one can dream of going from a shoemaker to a shepherd, yes?"
"Ohh"
"Yes. It was an age when princes strove to gain lands by force of arms, however barren they might be."
"Ha-ha. You are quite reserved for one so young, not telling me I'm an ignorant old man."
"It's fairly often that far-off disputes are taken for stories of conflicts in nearby lands by mistake at some point. The sparks of war and chaos fly out of the mouths of men. Neither those who live in towns nor those who till the soil in villages travel outside them very often. Furthermore, travelers like you don't pour cold water on the tales of 117/193 villagers, either. Before long, people get the notion that war is a whirlwind spanning the entire world."
"Because things are like that, I was as surprised as a hen when I heard the tale at a tavern... that Count Zenfel, known not only in his own lands but outside them, had declared he was building a fort here."
"Stöckengurt!"
"But building this fort did give plenty of people work to do. Count Zenfel was a very generous man. Thus, the fort was completed, but..."
"So no enemies came, then?"
"I have no recollection of any in the last ten-odd years. I've aided many lost souls, and once some bandits came down from the mountains looking for this place, or at least I heard rumors to that effect. In the end, there has not been a single battle."
"In the first place, I never heard one word about anyone invading this region after the count passed away. I suppose other groups didn't want the place because it's too barren. It's like a teaching of the Church, is it not? Blessed are the meek."
"But it looks like the privileges granted to the count will run out next summer. A letter to that effect practically just arrived."
"Oh?"
"Because of that, I am, as I said, quite glad I did not hit you with my arrow. You're a traveling merchant, yes?"
"There is something I wish to ask of you."
"That's... Yes, of course, if it's within my power."
"I'd like you to help me liquidate this fort."
"I want to go on a journey. So, I want to convert everything here into money."
"I don't... mind, but..."
"I have served here for ten-odd years. I deserve that much of a fitting farewell. I have faithfully defended this land, after all."
"Well, go ahead and enjoy a good night's sleep. It's been so long since I had a guest. You'll be amazed at how well you sleep on a straw bed that isn't squished down!"
"It's quite a job for one man to maintain all this; in particular, dealing well with broken stones."
"Well, more than anything of monetary value, this was placed here for when Count Zenfel might visit. To me, it's a treasure I can't put a value on, but what about you? Surely there is something here you can convert into money?"
"Mmm. For things to turn out like this..."
"The tents and books will go for quite a bit. It might make enough of a dowry that you could get into a monastery."
"Ha-ha-ha. I've spent quite long enough living in a place like this, staring at nothing but the sky and flat plains. "I've no intention of spending my money like that."
"I left my village to win land of my own by the sword. I don't think I could die under a roof now. I am Fried Rittenmayer, part of a knightly order under Count Zenfel."
"I now remember that I am a knight. I forgot to take into account the most important thing."
"The most important thing?"
"This."
"Could you trade this for money? It might be hard to take with you due to the weight, but still."
"The armor that saved my life in my younger days has to be worth something."
"... I think it's... probably worth as much as everything else here put together... but..."
"Mm. I see, I see. If it's worth more than banners and tents for looking heroic on the field of battle, I suppose I'd look like quite a person wearing a suit like this, then."
"Fwa-ha-ha. In the old days I'd never have thought of selling my suit of armor. Yet now it is not I choking on his words in the face of it, but a traveling merchant. How amusing!"
"... To be honest, I think you have enough for traveling expenses even without selling it. Besides, all you'd need to maintain this fort is enough to pay for a mason and a gardener."
"No, it's quite fine. The count granted me knighthood for the purpose of defending this fort. If I am to leave, I shall require the armor no more."
"Well, let's go up and have a bit of a drink. If I'm going to leave, there's some wine I want to open up first."
"I joined in a number of large battles, too. It was a war that will be remembered for a thousand years in the annals of scribes. I lost count of how many times arrows struck my helmet. When an enemy's ax bounced off my armor, the sparks thrown up made my eyes dizzy. When I was waiting to have my armor fixed one time, the blacksmith told me it was only by the grace of God that it hadn't been ripped apart."
"Truly, it was the Lord who guided this young man to me who knows the value of things!"
"I truly wanted to drink this with the count once more, but it cannot be helped."
"Where do you intend to go after you leave here?"
"I thought I'd go visit an old friend of mine. I get letters from him from time to time. It'll take me past the monastery that's sent me necessities so nicely."
"He was a stout man, but my friend's finally at a precarious age. It's probably my last chance to talk about old times. Also, I want to see how a town I once defended is doing now; maybe go to the church in a town I sacked long ago and atone for my sins. Even I want to go to heaven, you see."
"And I thought it'd be good to live on the road like you traveling merchants, finally collapsing on some warm patch of grass somewhere for my final breaths."
"Ah, is that so..."
"You've probably had the experience. Your belly empty, lying flat on a patch of grass on a clear day thinking you might die, staring up at the sky... How strangely refreshing it is."
"I think, I'd like to die like that if I could. But really..."
"What does a knight who's shown a merchant his treasure room have left to hide?"
"Ah, 'tis exactly as you say. Why, as I said all that, I surprised myself that I'm finally at the age to think that way."
"In the first place, lying with my back against the grass staring up at the sky was an experience from my first sortie."
"I was wearing a heavy suit of armor, on an unfamiliar horse, all full of myself. It was right after I encountered the enemy and traded two or 127/193 three blows of the lance. I thought I'd taken down my foe, but when I came to, I was spread out on the ground, staring at the sky. The suit was extremely heavy; tough as it was, once you fell, you couldn't get back up on your own. All I could do was wait for my comrades to rescue me or be skewered."
"Of course, I was prepared to die. I hadn't even heard the sound of the impact from the fall; the only thing before my eyes was the broad, clear sky of early spring. Even though 'twas the middle of a battle, I wondered if that was heaven."
"When I thought I'd felled my foe, I got so excited I fell off my horse."
"But really..."
"I have a favor to ask."
"Yes."
"Would you face me in my final battle?"
"I am at your service."
"It's strange, why didn't I die from all that?" That often seemed to be the case for those who survived in this world. When one died, it might be from a sharpened stick thrust into them by a child in some village. "Let's see, how about this?"
"I'm not sure I can wear it, but..."
"Let's see, now comes the weapons. There were swords and lances in the treasure room so I'll get some. What would be best?"
"Bring one sword and one lance, then."
"One of each?"
"Aye. I'll take the sword. Would you take up the lance?"
"Behold my beloved ram, Edward the Second!"
"baa"
"Give me my sword!"
"I am Fried Rittenmayer under the Scarlet Eagle of Count Zenfel."
"Raise your lance, young man!"
"What's wrong, young man? Losing your nerve?"
"My sword versus your lance. Let us make clear here and now who the goddess of victory favors this day!"
"Mr. Fried!"
"H-has heaven finally forsaken me...?"
"But if there is compassion in you..."
"... would you deliver the final blow?"
"God grant me mercy."
"So I have been granted mercy, have I?"
"Yes. By a merchant."
"Then I should call myself a knight no longer. 'Twas a good, stirring fight."
"... Nn!"
"So... this place has been deserted ever since?"
"I believe so. On one hand, Mr. Fried did say he had some regrets so would try to find someone he could push the deed and rights to the fort onto, but it doesn't look like that worked out very well."
"Perhaps 'tis the way the world flows, so to speak."
"There is nothing that does not change. All we can do is appreciate that which is right before our eyes. Something like that?"
"I'm hungry."
"And how much mercy shall you grant, I wonder?"
"Are you telling me to stop being a merchant?"
"When that happens, I shall finish you off myself."
"Ohh, God grant me mercy."
"O Lord, grant thy mercy to this foolish traveling merchant."
"You have some nerve, do you have any proof,"
"Any proof?"
"None."
"hmph"
"Mm? Holo did?"
"Yes... Er, I felt that it really wasn't good for me to keep quiet about it..."
"Yeah, I know."
"Ah? But Mr. Lawrence, you..."
"Certainly if you insist on my providing proof, I have none, but we're down four pieces of dried meat. Perhaps Holo ate three and you ate the other one?"
"... I'm sorry."
"Holo made you eat it, didn't she?"
"Am I wrong?"
"I trust you, and that's why I don't doubt what you said."
"Besides, even Holo must vaguely realize that I count the slices of dry meat."
"Ah?"
"It's not as if I thought I was putting her on trial and determining her guilt or innocence. I'm not that hard up for money."
"But on a journey, if you let your guard down over and over, that can lead to disaster someday. For example, in a critical situation, you might have to give up on something because you're just a little short on money or something similar. "You understand, don't you?"
"But she's extremely narrow-minded about some things you see. I have no objection to simple childishness, but she'll probably get hardheaded if I prove impropriety to her face."
"If I back her into a corner and say, 'You swiped the food, didn't you?' she'd acknowledge it, yes. And after, when taking the slightest break and offered food, there's no doubt in my mind she'd say, 'Is this not swiping food?' Moreover, she'd go, 'Is it all right to eat this?' or something, and even 'This, my boy, this is a trap,' wouldn't she?"
"No, she would never do that";
"That's why I don't need to back her that far into a corner and drive the fact I count all the food in like it's a nail. Holo's no idiot. If I gently point it out, even she'll stop swiping food after a while; a few cross words to me doesn't mean any genuine conflict. Besides..."
"It makes it a little harder for her to beg for food and wine when the going gets a little rough, doesn't it?"
"Goodness. She should know exactly what happens when you're not prepared and trouble strikes... She really is quite troublesome."
"Where would she be if I wasn't the one traveling with her?"
"Mm. Water?"
"Would you like some?"
"Even fools treat thirst with water,"
"Phew. 'Tis nothing quite like cold water."
"So, what of that fool?"
"Mr. Lawrence, you mean? He seems to be speaking to a merchant he's acquaintances with downstairs..."
"Hmph. 'Tis good if he does not stick his neck into strange schemes again..."
"... Ah. So, did you tell him about me, lad?"
"Heh-heh. I am not upset."
"Did he say something, then?"
"Er... ah, that's..."
"Well, he said he can't provide any proof, but he does know you ate it..."
"Hmph!"
"Goodness, he truly is a fool."
"He does not understand in the slightest why I swiped the food."
"... Ah?"
"Mm? Could it be that even you think all I was doing was having a snack?"
"My word, these males are just..."
"I am certainly aware of his side. 'Tis not good to swipe food and waste it, it might cost us when in a real pinch, and so forth?"
"Of course I understand that. But I do not think 'tis necessary to be so narrow-minded about each and every little thing. I did not steal food that we have but a limited supply. A few slices of dried meat shall hardly be missed."
"I think it a good thing if that fool lightens up a little. When I first met that fool, he was so greedy that he would not overlook even a nail fallen upon the road. He did not even eat properly, focusing everything on making money, neglecting even his own life. If you do such things long enough, your mind shall split and you shall make a terrible mistake."
"Human life is short. Those who do not enjoy themselves when it is time to do so die with scowls on their faces."
"Goodness,"
"It can't be helped,"
"Might as well enjoy it after having come this far,"
"Well, if I said this to his face, he'd no doubt think he is the wise one. He'd likely say, no, you're the one who's mistaken. That is why I must very slightly play the fool, loosening him up whether he likes it or not. Yet even though this wisewolf is doing so much for him, truly that fool is..."
"What would happen to that fool if I was not traveling with him?"
"What, 'tis the lad who awoke first?"
"My, my"
"Now then... slap the fool awake and get breakfast, perhaps?"
"-nsherned you shay?"
"Ah!"
"Yesterday I ran into an old acquaintance of a merchant in the corridor, and he asked me to help with something."
"Then should you not do it?"
"You're free, aren't you?"
"Aye, try saying that again,"
"Um, can I do it?"
"Mm? Ah yes, you'd be plenty of help, Col. Can I count on you?"
"Yes!"
"What will I be doing?"
"It's merely counting some gold coins. There's a fair amount, but you're strong in math so I'm not at all concerned."
"I'll do my best!"
"Ha-ha. You'll be fine even without the enthusiasm."
"So?"
"I shall go, for you will be lonely without me."
"So what was all this?"
"A merchant I know asked for help tabulating his money."
"Hmph,"
"And why did he ask you to do such a thing?"
"Apparently he's not close to any of the money changers in this town. His deal ended well, but he's unfamiliar with the currencies here, he said. So he asked me to sort out the coins and show him in broad terms how to convert them efficiently; he can't learn without seeing it for himself."
"You can tell steel by the taste, so you'd better learn it, too."
"That brings me back. My teacher did that a lot to cheat me out of my allowance."
"So that is how you became so gutless?"
"I'd rather you said 'watchful.'"
"Ha!"
"Ahh, ahh, thank you for coming. And you brought such a charming apprentice, too."
"This is Holo, who I travel with for a few odd reasons, and Col."
"I am Holo."
"Tote Col."
"Mm, mm,"
"Oh, I'm truly sorry for making you come out of your way like this. I've been trading in far-off lands for twenty years, you see. I can't make sense of this mountain of strange coins, and as a result, these money changers want to keep half my coins for commission. You can't slip anything past them."
"Was that one at the town back then ill-natured, I wonder?"
"That money changer was a real villain."
"So, can I ask you to get this done as soon as possible? Actually, there's a money order from a comrade I need to settle by tomorrow. There's too many people who push this job and that onto their elders, I tell you. This is why I hate traveling."
"It just shows how much they trust you. Understood."
"Right this way, then..."
"Mm."
"Ooh."
"..."
"Bwa-ha-ha! How about it. Surprised?"
"There's quite a bit of coins all over the place here... and with old ones mixed in, too."
"Yes. That makes it difficult. My traveling companion is a merchant about the same level as I. I had a deal for the guild to send someone to do the accounting, but he was completely useless. I have to think it's our willingness to stick our own necks into danger that makes us into merchants."
"Also, this merchandise... You bought up a whole warehouse from some company hard on its luck?"
"Ah?"
"Hah. Well, something like that. I haven't been in business long enough for this land to trade kings three times over for nothing. I was collecting on favors I'd made here and there and so forth."
"We'll be as much help as we possibly can. But with so much, I'm not quite as confident so... I need a visual reference. Holo, sorry but could you go get the pouch with coins in it from the inn?"
"Mm. The one you always use to compare by eye?"
"That's the one. Sorry, but thanks."
"Mm."
"Now then, Col."
"This one, this one... and this one; shouldn't be any question for these. Take the same type as these and line them up in piles often."
"Right!"
"A lot of money's riding on getting the fine details right."
"Hmmm. The gold coins are fine like this."
"It seems so. The problem is the silver coins."
"Ah. you're making good time here. There's no need to rush; accuracy is what's important for this."
"Right, right. Rushing won't make more of them. Though when you don't close your purse quickly, you find yourself a few short!"
"Now then, you have to watch out for this one and that one. This is counterfeit; that one's from a rival religion."
"Hmph. Today's men in high places do things just like the old ones."
"Well, I suppose so."
"Sorry about that."
"All right, line the contents up over there."
"..."
"Don't mix them up with the others."
"Ah, that silver coin is wrong."
"Ah? Oh."
"Ah, hey, Holo!"
"Mm, uh?"
"Ahh, what are you doing, you fool!"
"Fool!"
"I'm not upset. In exchange, is it all right if I decide how many silver coins there were? Looks aside, I'm still going strong up here."
"Sorry. I can't have you saying I inflated the numbers in the confusion."
"Ha-ha. I'd say the same thing even if there was a written count."
"Is there any proof I ate the dried meat?"
"That's thirty-two Ladeon Diocese silver pieces; fifty-five Mitzfing Cathedral silver pieces; forty-one Archduke Dandren Enthronement silver pieces; and finally, eighty-five silver trenni pieces."
"The same as I recall."
"That's how it is. Don't be concerned; just separate that many coins out. If you make a mistake, correct your mistake and you will be forgiven, for the Lord is generous."
"Lad. What did your master tell you earlier?"
"Good. Splendid."
"Glory to God."
"You've been a real help."
"Call if you need anything else,"
"Goodness."
"That's a well-known miser for you. Made us work like money changers and this is all he pays us."
"This won't even cover lunch."
"Hungry, aren't you? Let's go buy something with our profits."
"So, how much did we make?"
"Who knows? I am not a merchant. I do not know the prices of silver coins."
"How many coins were you able to swap?"
"About ten of the silver coins with swords on them; I did not replace any with lilies. I replaced around thirty of your beloved silver trennis."
"Mm... if that's the case, well, considering the age difference, it comes out to a fair bit."
"Heh-heh. That fool was desperately counting them, was he not? It was as if he had grease in his eyes. I wonder, will you turn into that when you grow old?"
"Ah, Col. I had to use your carrying bag. Do not be concerned, your belongings are all in order at the inn."
"Good of you, though. At what point did you notice?"
"Mmm? 'Tis obvious. 'Twas the moment you returned to the room and spoke to me rather than the lad."
"Well, I'll take your word for it."
"Fool. But I must say, you put on quite an act yourself. When Col made that dubious face at the carrying bag, I thought things might get a little rough."
"...!"
"I was surprised, too. I thought you'd pick a gentler method."
"But 'twas perfect, was it not? "
"Very much so. Well, it's a good thing I'm used to giving out that humble, submissive feeling, too."
"Ahh, sorry, sorry,"
"Holo can tell whether silver is good or bad by sound."
"Huh?"
"She can tell by sound just like we can tell steel and copper by taste. Even if the symbol is the same, the silver purity rate varies heavily according to the year it was minted. It was clear from the start that stingy old man would get people to help him without any proper reward, you see. So, we swapped our bad coins for good coins and took our own reward."
"This fool wouldn't ask me to do something troublesome for no reason, you see. There was definitely something behind it. And then there was that mountain of coins. Of course, I understood right away what he had in mind."
"Well, we're not traveling for nothing, are we?"
"Aye. 'Twas because the lad worked so diligently that the fool let his guard down, after all. Besides, paying attention to one rabbit is one thing; two rabbits is a different matter altogether. Col's hard work making him careless beforehand was what made it possible."
"That's because the apprentice is a reflection of the master. He seemed to think Col was my apprentice, so that must have made him more confident I had nothing up my sleeve."
"Now then, time for lunch?"
"Yeah. Let's buy something appropriate around here. I know there's a cheap bakery right around..."
"Mmm? There's a restaurant with delicious-looking food over there. Is that not better?"
"That's the one with what, roasted chicken and duck? During the day it may smell delicious, but it's expensive. Bread's plenty."
"Fool. You go earn money, but you have no intention of using it?"
"No intention whatsoever. If I use up everything I earn, when can I rest easy?"
"Hah! That's quite something from someone who's always sleeping like a foolish, lazy cat. What you earned back there was thanks to me, so use it as I tell you!"
"I'm the one who took the job. Besides, you don't even know how to arrange coins by type. Let's say you earned half. That half probably doesn't even cover all the food you've swiped."
"Y-you're dragging that out again... Really, this fool is just..."
"Don't you think about anything but eating? Think ahead a little more..."
"Ah, er, and Mr. Lawrence?"
"That fool can jump off a bridge!"
"Yes, yes, yes."
"Um, water...?"
"Now, now now."
"Here."
"Beware of girls with hoods on their heads."
"This one is mine."
"Would you give him back?"
"Ha! Er, well, pardon me."
"Thank you."
"What did you want incidentally? We came thinking we might get some water, but... perhaps he made some mistake?"
"Here. "This truly is a helpless soul. Even though I tell him over and over to approach all things with a sincere heart..."
"No, no, not at all. Not at all."
"Because I live in a village such as this, I was hoping very much I could speak with you."
"Mmm? Speak?"
"Yes, yes. If I may say so, I am the headman of this village and I bear the duty of broadening the horizons of the people who live here. Therefore, I was very much hoping to speak with travelers such as yourselves about your experiences in other lands..."
"Aye... certainly we are travelers. We have come from the south on our way to the north where all is cold. Of course, our lives are like candles flickering in the storm, and we have been saved not a few times by the grace of a great light."
"Ohh, ohh, my goodness... In other words, you bear tales of fantastic creatures of legend, vagabonds, heroic knights, and the like?"
"Mmm? Aye, certainly I know several stories like that... Mmm... No, you probably would not believe them..."
"Ohhhhh...!"
"Oh, I forget myself. Were you not here to get water?"
"... We're still all right, but if I don't do something soon..."
"We're not running out of just water, but wine, as well..."
"What! You should have said so sooner!"
"Meaning?"
"Come stay at my house! I'll prepare fine wine indeed!"
"What a... generous offer..."
"No doubt the blessings of God shall be upon you."
"Aye. And then, that very moment, he heard the distant howl of a valiant wolf. It was like a cry of victory..."
"The wolf pack plunged down into the valley like an avalanche. In the end, the bandits that had invaded the valley could do nothing against them and fled, all in a jumble. The only ones left were the villagers who lived in the valley."
"A-a valley full of wolves?"
"Even if the bandits were driven off, that's... you know?"
"Y-yeah. Even if the bandits were gone I can't tell which's worse..."
"S-so, what happened in the end...?"
"The villagers in the valley no doubt thought the same thing; one calamity followed by another. No, this could be worse than the bandits, for this was not a foe one could reason with."
"But one wolf advanced in front of the line of villagers. It was an old wolf with gray hair mixed in. And the village headman had seen this wolf before."
"It was the wolf he'd helped?!"
"In the end, the villagers offered all the salt-pickled meat they had. But they did not eat the villagers even so. After all, wolves do not eat ears of wheat. And so, the village managed to get through the winter that year."
"Ohh..."
"I have 181/193 no more stories to tell,"
"And? Is there more? Other stories like that to tell?"
"No, how about tales of chivalry! There's lots of those all over the place, right?"
"I want to talk about the Church. There's things I want to ask people on a pilgrimage. Is it true that the Holy Mother is at the cathedral in the Belan Mountains?"
"Hmmm. But really, I am all out..."
"Hey, looks like you're running low on wine. Lemme pour some more!"
"Hey, hey, God forgives people for drinking all the time. We don't get these chances very often, so please, tell us more stories like that one!"
"We'll have a fun time again tomorrow,"
"tomorrow"
"I want some help here,"
"I'm very sorry, but..."
"So, why didn't you get up before it got to this point?"
"Goodness..."
"... Water."
"... Hold on."
"There's no water pitcher. Hold on a bit, I'll go draw some water."
"Me, too..."
"I spoke too much... My face is hot. There's a brook near here, yes?"
"Whew..."
"Well, looked like you had fun."
"... Pwah!"
"Is this not enough?"
"What is with this, though?"
"Mm?"
"I did not think they would be that insistent. I wanted to slip out somehow, but..."
"I got scared midway."
"People are more frightening. Once wolves and bears' bellies are full, there is nothing to fear from them. But people are not limited by such concerns; when abstract things are concerned, all the more so."
"It would be nice if you always remembered that..."
"Mmm."
"But I must wonder."
"Mmm?"
"What did they expect from me?"
"What... you ask?"
"I know they wanted amusing tales. That is not what I mean."
"That is not what I mean... Surely my stories were not amusing enough to listen to them so seriously? Or were they so fascinating? A number of them were lies, and obvious ones at that, yet even so?"
"To put it bluntly... Because they're villagers."
"This path..."
"It's probably the prettiest path in the village."
"What of it?"
"Haven't you noticed something since we started walking?"
"This path is just wide enough for two adults to walk along it, holding hands."
"... Mm?"
"No doubt it's like this from the brook till it ends."
"But since it's too narrow for two horse-drawn wagons to pass by each other, the path through the field over there is probably wider."
"And yet, this path, connecting most of the houses in the village, is only this wide. There's a reason for that."
"Aye...?"
"If we walk to the end, you'll see. And, it'll serve as the answer to your own question, too."
"Aye..."
"This is the answer."
"This village begins at the brook, but for other villages it can be a well. Anyway, it begins where there is water, and here is where it ends. You understand why the path is so narrow now, don't you?"
"Wide enough to carry a casket?"
"Yes. The brook is used for baptism, and when you die, you reach the end of this path. If the sun was out, you could see this place straight from the brook. The villagers' lives have no twists or turns. 189/193 There are no detours. Where they were born and where they shall die were determined long ago. That's why they want to know about the outside world."
"You see what I mean?"
"It would have been nice to speak with them more."
"But ah yes..."
"This is the natural order for many people, is it not?"
"I suppose so. If it wasn't, there wouldn't be any business for traveling merchants."
"Quite true,"
"Well, the world is full of many things. Now I have become wiser about one more."
"Now that the mystery is solved, shall we go back? My hotness from the wine seems to be cooling."
"I'm all for that. After all, tomorrow..."
"... we'll be back on the road again."
"Aye,"
"intermission"
"conclusion"
"summerish"