
New Convo:

"We must leave this place,"
"And quickly, too."
"Come, you."
"What's this, then?"
"'We seek now a brave merchant who fears neither witch nor alchemist. In consideration of both the wealth and progress of the guild, by all means, please... signed, Lud Kieman.'"
"Don't you see? This is a summons from my guild,"
"Your guild?"
"The name on the letter, there - that's Lud Kieman, the manager of the local branch of my guild. Even if I don't owe Kieman any favors directly, I owe my allegiance to the Rowen Trade Guild, whose delta house he manages. Do you understand what I'm saying? Kieman is using the reins of my obligation to the guild in order to put me in a terrible position!"
"We must leave the city. As soon as possible. Before we no longer can."
"Both of you, quickly,"
"Would you not calm yourself?"
"I am quite calm!"
"-..."
"Well, there's nothing wrong with a pliant male who bends like a green twig, but such a man can hardly be relied upon. A fool is so much the better for his obviousness."
"Though possessing two eyes, most creatures can see but a single thing at a time. Do you know why males and females go to such lengths to bond with each other?"
"I'm sure your common sense has led you to some sort of clear conclusion."
"Hmph. From twixt stalks of wheat, I once often witnessed such ill manners in the village."
"Spit it out."
"... My father... was often like this."
"... I am sorry. Still-"
"Save your apologies. I want not answers. What I ask for is an explanation. We are not your followers. We've no obligation to do as you tell us. Do I not speak the truth?"
"So then, what happened?"
"Eve invited me to act as her spy."
"Oh ho,"
"And the sender of that letter, Kieman, wants me to act as his spy as well."
"So you're trapped, then."
"The reason for all of this is because the south side has captured a fishing boat from the north. That's all it will take to spark the conflict 19/197 between the poor north and the wealthy southern sides. The southerners resorted to this because they wanted the valuable catch of the northerner's boat. Eve has been charged with returning the prize to the north, but the one who gave her the order is not doing so out of loyalty to the north, but rather for his own profit. And Eve is merely pretending to go along with this; she plans to betray the north and has asked me to help."
"Quite a female,"
"But since Eve declared her intention to betray the north, it's likely she's willing to betray anyone, is it not?"
"'Tis a bog of doubt, then, aye. When even your own pack is trying to use you to their own ends, I suppose 'tis no surprise your face is white with worry."
"Is there any solution that satisfies all parties?"
"Since Eve isn't truly working for the north, it shouldn't matter to her where her profit comes from. Which means she shouldn't mind receiving her share from the Rowen Trade Guild. It's possible that both Eve and the guild could profit. So as long as she doesn't decide to betray both me and the guild in order to take everything for herself, that could work."
"Hmm."
"Alternatively, I could act in favor of the guild's profit and try to exclude Eve entirely."
"Mmm... So we must either throw ourselves on the mercy of a villain or be blindly optimistic, eh?"
"But this is all guesswork based on what I've been able to learn. In such a vast operation, there is too much I don't know. If I get involved, I can't help but be a pawn for those above me."
"So you're left with discretion being the better part of valor, eh?"
"Yes,"
"So that vixen and your pack are fighting over the same prize, then? What might that be?"
"Huh? Oh yes. It's what you say you saw on the south side."
"Surely not the bones?"
"Something similar. A beast from the northern seas - a magical creature with a single horn. Eating its flesh grants long life, and a tincture of its horn cures disease. It's called a narwhal. Evidently one of the north side's fishing boats hauled one up in its nets."
"What's wrong?"
"... 'Tis nothing."
"Still-"
"Yes?"
"You're certain that all this talk centers around that, aye?"
"Yes."
"In which case, you yet have choices you can make. Isn't that so?"
"Er, ah, um..."
"Come now, be bold!"
"E-er, couldn't Miss Holo simply... go and take the narwhal...?"
"... Huh?"
"If there's a fight over some object, then the conflict hinges on the item itself. I'm sure Miss Holo can traverse the river in a single bound, so she should be able to steal it easily."
"Look here, even if we do that, the question becomes what to do next. Even if the theft were simple, you would certainly be witnessed. At which point, the idea that anyone would then buy the narwhal from us is completely absurd. That much is-"
"I'm well aware of that. But"
"you must have seen how simple this all truly is. Have you not?"
"... Huh?"
"You haven't, then? The matter that has you so terrified you can think only of escape, I will tear open with my fangs and claws. To have my companion in such a dither over this is quite a problem. So much more the fool me for choosing you as such, I suppose."
"..."
"Heh-heh-heh. You see, Col, my boy? This is what comes of letting a tempest in a teacup get the better of one."
"Always have your weapons at the ready,"
"Also, if you escape this current predicament, will it not be easier to find out more about the bones?"
"... Eve knows that, too. She told me that if I would cooperate with her, she would hand over what she knows about the bones. In other words, she's saying she wouldn't mind finding out what Ted Reynolds of the Jean Company supposedly knows."
"Hmph. The vixen is cooler headed than you are. Listen here - is our search for the bones so very different from the trouble you seem to have found yourself mixed up in now?"
"When we began our pursuit of the bones, you warned me of this. But now you flinch away at the prospect of a similar challenge? At this rate..."
"... I will begin to doubt your words."
"Did you not tell me you were that rare male good for more than talk?"
"I suppose we can take escape out of the discussion."
"Aye. So now you can relax those shoulders of yours."
"Because you'll be here should the worst happen?"
"No, because you've no need to worry over who to sell this sea beast to once it's between my jaws. Just as the boy Col said, if the pups begin fighting over it, I should think the easiest solution would be for me to simply eat it."
"... I suppose it's not surprising I didn't think of that myself."
"That merely proves how little you were considering me,"
"Obviously,"
"Hmph. You say such things, and yet how many times have you needed my aid? There's no great difference between the third and fourth time."
"You are indeed the Wisewolf of Yoitsu, but that's not why I chose you as my traveling companion."
"So you'll show me such cleverness as to impress even a wisewolf, then?"
"Of course,"
"Of course."
"If you're going to resort to that, soon you won't have any belt left at all."
"I'll buy you some thread, at the very least."
"Huh? No... I'm quite all right. See?"
"I have yet to pay you back for explaining the mystery of the copper coins to me. Church scholars are paid for their lectures, are they not?"
"Would it really be all right?"
"Naturally. Shall we find a tailor and buy some thread? Wouldn't it be better to be able to do your mending sooner rather than later?"
"Well, then, thank you!"
"So, which thread would you like?"
"So, the price varies with the color, but what do you think you'd like?"
"Hmm... since this is my coat's color, I suppose..."
"A nice pale yellow shouldn't stand out."
"Er, but can't yellow be quite..."
"Ah, you must be the master of a great shop somewhere!"
"It's a shame we didn't wear our finest out today,"
"Yes, yes, I quite take your meaning! Please do have a look at this here,"
"M-Mr. Lawrence-"
"Hmm?"
"Good sir! Good sir, look, take a good look at this fine golden color! So pure a gold that even gold itself looks shabby beside it! This is my master's finest product. What say you, hmm?"
"It is indeed a fine gold. Bright as any metal."
"Is it not? So, if you please-"
"Still, wouldn't such fine thread be wasted on such a coat? If it's so bright as to cause even true gold to fade by comparison, won't it cause the seams to stand out? In that instant, the boy's desperate business smile froze. Behind the boy, Lawrence heard the master sigh helplessly. "To make sure the seams aren't too visible, we'll take your cheapest gray thread."
"What length will you be needing?"
"How much could I get for three silver lute?"
"Indeed... in that frayed state, maybe enough to do five seams like it? And while you're at it, how about taking some of this blue thread off my hands? The dye's been coming off the boats like mad these days, so there's quite a lot."
"You should buy it while it's cheap, then, and sell it when the price rises."
"Three lute worth, then,"
"What's wrong?"
"Are you so very surprised?"
"... N-no, it's just..."
"Holo's teasing is far worse than mine,"
"True,"
"And I seem to recall her telling you to be more shameless. I'm no god, just a merchant, so I don't show mercy unless begged."
"Of course, if you were actually the sort of person who acted shamelessly when told to, I suppose I wouldn't be traveling with you."
"Still, I may not be a god, but I don't mind being prayed to once in a while."
"Huh?"
"If I truly hated being asked for this or that, I wouldn't be traveling with certain fanged somebody."
"But you're a future clergyman, so if you're not going to pray to me, at least let me give my confession."
"Eh... you mean...?"
"I confess that my behavior during the prior exchange was not exactly commendable,"
"What do you mean by that?"
"I mean exactly that. I was taking my frustration out on you."
"Taking your frustration out?"
"You saw how troubled I was back at the inn, didn't you?"
"I did."
"No, no, it's fine. You may be my apprentice, but I can't very well strike your face just to save mine."
"But after acting so pathetically, I wanted to get some of my pride back, you see."
"... So was that why you shared that look with the master in the shop, then?"
"That's right. I went over your head just to tease you. I just wanted to make you worry that I was going to buy you the most expensive thread... and feel a bit superior myself. Rather childish of me, I guess."
"Your confession has been heard. God has surely forgiven you."
"Thank you,"
"Still, Mr. Lawrence-"
"Hmm?"
"You had another reason for doing that, didn't you?"
"You were trying to meet Miss Holo's expectations, weren't you?"
"I can't say that... wasn't part of it, too,"
"I know I can't do very much to help you, Mr. Lawrence, but please keep at it!"
"R-right."
"And despite my looking so pathetic - a sad little merchant taking his frustrations out on those beneath him - you still hold me in some esteem? You're a strange lad, that's certain,"
"Huh...? But... I mean... you're traveling with Miss Holo, aren't you? She told me you were looking for her homelands."
"True, but...?"
"So doesn't that mean that the problem we're facing now is large enough to justify your concern?"
"I mean, this journey is the continuation of Holo's legend, isn't it? So the problems you face have to be worthy of such a tale! I'm truly grateful to be able to be part of the story,"
"It's true; she does say she'll speak of this journey grandly in legends to come. But that's all the more reason I need to behave properly for you."
"I don't want to be thought of as a burden when our tale is told!"
"Well, in any case, there's one thing we must be very careful of indeed. We must cooperate to make absolutely certain we never anger her."
"Sometimes I act shamefully, as I did earlier. I need someone's help to stop me from doing it."
"I understand!"
"I'll do whatever I can."
"Well, shall we return?"
"Yes!"
New Convo:

"So, truly - what shall we do?"
"A traveling merchant cannot hope to survive without a guild. So at the very least, I cannot oppose them."
"'A big tree makes fine shelter,' eh? I suppose it gives a bit of freedom to the small-fry beneath it - 'tis probably the right choice."
"small-fry"
"Still, the greatest short-term profit would be had by taking the narwhal to Eve."
"And then make our escape, hand in hand? That might be rather amusing."
"So, then. Given that both Eve and the guild know where we're staying, there's no telling when we'll get drawn up into danger. I'd like to make sure I have a full grasp of the situation so I don't react badly when that happens,"
"What is it?"
"Mm."
"Please, go on!"
"Now then, this will finish off our day nicely."
"Ah, well, for my part I only wish you'd bring your whimpering to an end."
"Yet ask any mercenary, and they'll tell you the strong die first. I'd say some pathetic whimpering is just right."
"Fool,"
"I can't let my guard down,"
"I am right here, and yet you gaze out the window?"
"We still need to be ready to escape at a moment's notice."
"I suppose 'tis true enough. Will you not drink with me a bit? 'Tis a sad thing to drink on one's own."
"Why not? It seems unlikely we'll get a message at this hour."
"Of that we cannot be certain."
"Huh?"
"Vixens have excellent night vision."
"All the more important to drink now, then."
"Huh?"
"If I collapse unconscious from too much drink, there's no need to worry about how I might be tricked."
"Fool. If you fall asleep and expose your belly, our tale will come to an early end."
"I can't imagine the wolf would let the fox steal her prey so easily,"
"That's a bit hard to know. After all, my prey is always showing me its belly. 'Tis all too easy to become careless and believe there's no need for haste. Such thinking is dangerous."
"But your tail's just as exposed. If you would take me by surprise, you'd best be careful I don't grab your tail."
"And I suppose you want me to insist that you'd never dare such a thing, hmm?"
"And yet you're hiding something about the narwhal from me."
"I'm even more surprised than you are,"
"And this is why such fools as you are..."
"I don't care what sort of face you make, I'm not saying. I do not wish to,"
"Ah,"
"If you say another word, I truly will be angry,"
"... I thought you'd realized and were merely pretending not to know for my sake - more the fool me, I suppose."
"No... to be completely honest, I thought you were completely ignorant about such things. I never guessed you'd know about the legend."
"Fool..."
"So you once pursued a narwhal?"
"Though 'tis true that at the time I was an ignorant pup, I believed I could change everything about the world I found distasteful. When I hated being rescued or relied upon, I would journey, and when I had no friends, I would make them. I believed such pleasant times would last forever,"
"Still, I cried a lot as well, for all my bluster. You'd probably have liked it."
"Heh... but, aye. The more painful the memories one recollects, the better the laughter."
"I can't argue with that."
"But now I have you,"
"You have Col, too."
"I cannot talk like this with Col. The lad - he's the weight stone that reminds me I am a wisewolf."
"Col worships me as a wisewolf. He was foolish enough to want to touch my tail the moment he saw it. It's been centuries since such a thing has happened to me. It reminded me of long ago and made me happy... He's a good lad, and he reminds me that I am a wisewolf."
"It's true, you have been easier to get along with recently."
"Heh. I've no excuse."
"Still,"
"For you to keep that from me, after haranguing me so much over consulting you before deciding what to do..."
"If I discuss matters of business openly, my own gain will be less, will it not?"
"Aye, we're all greedy, always running about in service of our own gain."
"On that count, I'm forced to agree. Of course..."
"... Of course, if I weren't so greedy, I'd be able to buy you tastier food."
"Mm. But is seeing my pleasure not in your interests as well?"
"If you were truly so easily bribed by food, then that might be so."
"And what other methods could you use?"
"If food is out, then with words or manners."
"Neither of which is so very reliable in your case."
"Or you could imagine you've been deceived and decide to trust both. They might well turn out to be genuine."
"..."
"That is not what I meant to say,"
"We have to be ready to run."
"How about treating the loser kindly once in a while?"
"The victor can say nothing to the loser."
"Saying as much while always having your way, you must really fear nothing."
"Still, I suppose I can trust you at least a bit."
"Oh? Merchants may well seem sincere as they bow down, but inside they're sticking their tongues out."
"'Tis true, men and beasts alike stick their tongues out when defeated."
"Guh..."
"But 'tis also true that neither you nor I are alone when defeated."
"I'll remember that."
"Mmph,"
"Wh... what's wrong?"
"My. I suppose one's premonitions are not so easily discounted."
"See, there's the master of that poor shop. What was his name again...?"
"Reynolds, eh?"
"'Tis a good opportunity for you to prove the courage of your convictions."
"Make sure you pretend you're asleep."
"While sticking my tongue out, eh?"
"Apologies for the late hour."
"Shall we speak outside?"
"Some wine?"
"Perhaps just a bit. When I see that you're not drunk, Mr. Lawrence, it makes me think that coming here wasn't a waste of my time."
"You're here about the narwhal... correct?"
"I haven't the faintest notion of what's happening. I was hoping that you, Mr. Lawrence, might know something."
"Unfortunately, I don't know any details myself..."
"You've been to the Lydon Inn, haven't you?"
"The Lydon Inn?"
"Lies benefit neither of us. I already know you've been there."
"I suppose if I were to say I went there for some friendly chatter, you wouldn't believe me, would you, Mr. Reynolds?"
"I learned of the situation in the town from Eve. What I told her then was that she had quite a lot of nerve to summon me in such an easily misunderstood manner to such an easily misunderstood place amid such unrest."
"Eve seems to be in a unique position in this town, and despite the placid expression on her face, her mind must be swirling with notions. But she did not see fit to tell me about them."
"Truly?"
"Truly."
"... My apologies."
"Not at all. For you to be so worried, I assume you have some direct connection to all this?"
"Quite the opposite. I'm worried precisely because I've been left entirely out."
"Still, I'm sure you've heard, haven't you? I've a good connection with the powerful men of this town,"
"Given that you're in the copper trade, as far as that goes."
"Heh."
"Just as when you all came by to ask after the wolf bones, I thought maybe I could turn the tables,"
"I came with the slightest hope of connecting with the wolf of the Roam, but... heh, seems I've only caused a fuss,"
"Ah... I suppose it's late. Again, I'm sorry,"
"Not at all. I'm sorry I couldn't be of any help."
"And I'm sorry, too, that I couldn't give you any good answers to your questions."
"Should you meet the wolf again, tell her that Reynolds has a bone to pick with her."
"Yes... quite. I'll do that,"
"Again, I'm truly sorry for the late hour,"
"Good night to you."
"Good night,"
"Well... time for bed, I suppose,"
"So he's gone, has he?"
"Sorry to put you through all that,"
"Still, I was relieved you did not speak up to me immediately after,"
"I suppose I'm not surprised,"
"I suppose I did well, then."
"Heh-heh. He was acting so truly sad that I nearly fell for it myself. I wouldn't have thought him capable of such guile!"
"Merchants carry items both hot and cold in their purses. While his feelings may have been true, he won't be giving up just yet."
"Merchants are rather stubborn creatures, are they not?"
"They surely are."
"But"
"what do you think Reynolds's true goal was?"
"He wishes to contact the vixen. He'll do anything to do it."
"So that's really it..."
"What are you thinking?"
"Nothing. I only thought it was an interesting conversation."
"I'm going to sleep,"
"Good night."
"Good morning, Mr. Lawrence"
"... Good morning to you,"
"I see you're taking breakfast. My apologies for the interruption."
"Not at all - we're nearly done. What can I do for you?"
"Might we conduct this outside? I feel as though a mouse might appear in here at any moment."
"If possible, I'd like to leave the inn. As for your things... ah, they seem to be ready."
"if possible"
"I shall await you downstairs, then."
"Hmph. He seems like something you'd loathe,"
"Doesn't he?"
"Huh...? I thought he was sort of handsome..."
"You mustn't grow up to be like him."
"Now then, shall we leave through the back door and board the carriage?"
"I was unable to prepare a covered carriage - my apologies. Ah, please, do get in."
"Now, to the port,"
"So, as to my reason for coming here this morning."
"The best trades are made in enemy territory, I assumed."
"Ah, yes, just so. When there's trouble in the town, people like us are prohibited from crossing the river in order to prevent the trouble from escalating. Further communication is usually done via notes attached to arrows, but this time both sides require haste. It's been decided to resolve the dispute on the delta. We young ones are just the heralds, you see. Right about now, the others are consulting with the landlords to decide upon a schedule for the proceedings."
"May I presume that the source of all this commotion is the narwhal?"
"Yes, exactly. They say a narwhal's horn is even better for gout than the heart blood of a fowl. You can imagine just how much the nobility would want something like that."
"Indeed, given that gout is the punishment for gluttony, one of the Church's seven deadly sins."
"The house merchants of the nobility who live in the city will surely have sent word to their masters on fast horses. Of course, we can already list those who most want the narwhal."
"So you're prepared for battle, then?"
"Quite."
"Incidentally,"
"how much did you discuss with Miss Eve?"
"Er, Miss Eve...?"
"Ah, I'm sorry. My mistake,"
"Speaking of Miss Eve, I did chat with her a bit at the spring of gold."
"... Did you?"
"She said there was nothing so troublesome as being sold something that can't be bought with money."
"I'll bet,"
"Well, shall we go?"
New Convo:

"I vow not to cause any inconveniences."
"Should you need anything, please tell the innkeeper. And if you would be so kind as to inform us of your destination should you leave the inn, you'll avoid any unfortunate encounters."
"Understood."
"Well, then, please be at ease and enjoy your stay,"
"... What was that all about?"
"What are you doing?"
"Cotton! It's filled with cotton!"
"Cotton?"
"Come, lie upon it yourself! 'Tis soft, like a cloud."
"..."
"Fool,"
"Wh-what-"
"That's what I should be asking you! What are you doing with that serious expression of yours? You're staying here in a room far beyond your purse's means to let, yet you cannot enjoy it?"
"Well, I..."
"You truly are a weakling when it comes to such things. Why do you think that nasty little whelp left you here without explaining anything? There won't be anything like last night's eavesdropper, either. Our whelp is a bit more interesting than that."
"If the explanation you gave me is correct, he's still mistrustful of you. And 'tis a fact you've a connection to that vixen. So what does it mean that he's brought you to his territory and is trying to make you one of his pawns? Naturally, he must make sure you haven't any strings attached."
"Is it just that he didn't explain anything because he can't trust me?"
"At the very least, you've been brought to the territory of one you cannot be sure is friend or foe, and you have been left to your own devices - so what would you normally do? Aren't you in the habit of gathering information when you arrive in a new town?"
"On that count, humans and wolves are no different. You seek the counsel of those you know or those you trust. In other words, you navigate unfamiliar territory using the map within your mind. The minds of humans and beasts cannot be seen, but when they move, those movements make it quite clear what sort of map they possess. Just like my ears and tail or your beard."
"So in essence-"
"He's trying to see what I'll do when put in an uncertain situation."
"..."
"Quite... Honestly, the only reason to put us all up in such a fine room is-"
"-To make us sweat."
"So, what then shall we do?"
"We should act as usual and enjoy the fine treatment."
"Not bad."
"If we truly mean to support Kieman through and through, then this isn't enemy territory - it's our home base, and there's nothing to fear,"
"Was that what you were going to say?"
"Also, what would you do if the person on whom you'd lain an important duty seemed about to fall under the weight? Could you calmly continue to let them labor, eh?"
"When I did such things myself, I nary used such roundabout, bothersome methods."
"I am Holo. Holo the Wisewolf of Yoitsu!"
"Now then. What do you suggest we do?"
"We go out and enjoy ourselves."
"Mm. As grandly as we may, too."
"In that case, let's go see the narwhal at the church, shall we?"
"After all, there was quite a crowd on the way over here. If we ask, I'll bet we'll be allowed to see it."
"What do you say? Wouldn't it be boring to just go out for food and drink?"
"'Tis not a bad notion, coming from you."
"Come, let us hurry in."
"The church is currently conducting official business. None may enter."
"We are from the Rowen Trade Guild. We've permission from Mr. Kieman."
"My thanks,"
"It's quiet."
"It must be farther in,"
"Who goes there?"
"Who goes there? Guards!"
"My humble apologies. We were referred here by Lud Kieman of the Rowen Trade Guild."
"There seems to have been some mistake."
"What? The Rowen...? Ah, excuse me."
"Ahem. I am the assistant priest of this church, Sean Natole."
"I am Kraft Lawrence of the Rowen Trade Guild."
"I'm Holo."
"I am Tote Col."
"Is that so? Have you come here to pray, then?"
"No, we came here in hopes of being allowed to view the narwhal..."
"Ah..."
"Even having stated your goal,"
"we have yet to determine whether the thing, which has been brought to this church, is good or evil. While it is true that God has made everything that is, this particular creature is so strange that the head priest is currently seeking God's aid in determining its nature. While an introduction from Mr. Kieman of the Rowen Trade Guild is no small thing..."
"Actually, Mr. Kieman instructed me to give his regards to Father Natole, God's faithful servant."
"... Be assured that the message is received,"
"The creature in question is currently being identified in the sanctuary, but I suppose I could allow you to view it."
"You have my sincere gratitude,"
"As my holy walk is yet incomplete, I am prohibited from gazing upon it myself."
"Go on,"
"... This is..."
"It's really there."
"Shall we get closer?"
"..."
"I-is that a god, too?"
"I wonder. What do you think?"
"At the very least, it is within the realm of normal animals. Anything beyond that has a special scent. But I do not sense that here."
"Just a bad joke,"
"Well, if that's how big it is and this is the extent of the guards they've posted..."
"Wasn't that just a hypothetical plan?"
"If your fear could always be curbed by hypothetical notions, 'twould make things easier for me."
"..."
"The problem is from whence to enter."
"What about breaking through the front door?"
"It could be difficult if that door were shut tight."
"What about through that?"
"We'd be cursed for trying,"
"Heh-heh. It might feel rather nice to smash through that and leap in here."
"That might be the only way in, but that glass is built that way so as to keep the wall from collapsing. If we just destroy it, we could be in real trouble."
"Hmm?"
"When a building gets this large, you can't just make it entirely out of stone. The weight is too much, and the structure can't hold itself up; it'll collapse. So you make part of it out of glass, which is lighter, to avoid that. If you look carefully, you can see the iron rods supporting the joists. If we break those, things could get bad."
"We shall worry about that when the time comes,"
"If you would work a bit harder, I'd not have to bear so much of the danger."
"I know you can do it, Mr. Lawrence,"
"Well, let's hurry back. Father Natole will get suspicious."
"Mm."
"All right!"
"Do you really not want to have a closer look?"
"I'm fine,"
"I care not."
"It certainly had an aura befitting the legends. No wonder it's captured the minds of so many people."
"It's a terrifying thing, truly."
"Still,"
"I suppose I've used you to bargain with myself."
"So we've naught to fear, do we?"
"Looks like our wisewolf speaks the truth."
"Would you care to join us?"
"I'll pass,"
"If possible, I'd like to speak with you outside, Mr. Lawrence."
"So, about the topic at hand,"
"We wish to ask you, Mr. Lawrence, to act as our messenger."
"Might I ask the reason for that?"
"Naturally. To be blunt, originally this duty was not yours."
"Initially we'd intended to use Ted Reynolds, master of the Jean Company - you're familiar with it, yes? - to convey our intentions. The reason was-"
"-He wanted to escape the manipulations of the north."
"He contacted us, and using him would allow us to profit in the copper trade. So he was our first choice. Moreover, his connections to the Bolan family are quite strong. He controls the whole import-export trade of it on the Roam River, probably given his ties with the wolf."
"Our goal is this: By using the narwhal, we wish to gain full ownership of the northern district."
"But without allowing them to use the resulting profit to then control the entire town."
"A man in one of the northern landlord families is infatuated with the head of the Bolan house. We must use this. So long as the head of the Bolan family does not betray us, we can ensure a good outcome both for her and ourselves... but we do not know how this will play out yet."
"The messenger might well be our ally or, depending on circumstances, could change his allegiance to the other side. That is the sort of person we need. Otherwise, the wolf of the Roam River will be too cautious to approach us. Of course, we must ensure that we ultimately triumph, so our strategy must be a fool-proof one... and sadly, the goods in question are easily spoiled."
"What do you want me to do specifically?"
"We literally wish you to convey messages for us. We do not trust her, nor does the wolf trust us. But we trust you, and she does as well. You need only bring our proposal to them: The condition of the narwhal. The price. The method of delivery. The time. Or possibly the contingencies for escape. You'll carry that information to them and then bring their replies back to us."
"And the profit?"
"I'd like this to result in the Rowen Trade Guild becoming the preeminent guild on the south side. The current guild house chief, Jeeta, has become complacent - I'll replace him. And the resulting profit..."
"... I'll leave that to your imagination."
"Of course, this is a mere verbal promise, which means the wolf has a chance to sway you to her side."
"Indeed. And she could offer me concrete profit, no doubt."
"I'd prefer not to have to deal with the wolf, but without doing so, there's no chance for success at all. She's simply that powerful."
"Understood, then. I believe I see my role in all of this."
"I'm glad to hear that. However..."
"However?"
"However, I truly thought I'd had you completely under my control. How... how did you regain your footing?"
"I apologize for asking such a foolish question. Neither merchants, knights, nor kings can accomplish so very much on their own. Priests are no different."
"They have their God,"
"Well, we're both walking on thin ice made solid only with lies - so let us each do our best, eh?"
"Now then, I can't very well do side dealings all day. If you need to contact me, simply speak to the innkeeper. Also, we won't do anything so tasteless as eavesdropping on you, so if you'd be so kind to return the favor."
"Indeed. Doubt and misunderstanding lead always to misfortune."
"This should all be settled by the evening after tomorrow."
"In that case even if we can't sleep from nerves, we should be able to see it through,"
"He didn't say a thing about what'll happen if we fail,"
New Convo:

"'Tis a lovely night, is it not?"
"It is."
"As the moon waxes and wanes, so too does my mood,"
"You left the room so suggestively, I couldn't help but follow."
"Did I look so desperate to be spoken to?"
"... I suppose I did."
"Still,"
"I did want to speak with you a bit."
"With me?"
"Aye."
"Are you going to teach me some secret technique for controlling human nature?"
"If it were so, I'd have no need to tell you. After all, I've been controlling your nature for quite some time, have I not? You should know how to do it yourself by now."
"I suppose you want me to answer, 'I guess you're right.'"
"There's a fine attitude."
"I..."
"Hmm?"
"I... I am regretting having pushed you into this."
"Well, I'm grateful. It's thanks to you that I can stand up to Kieman."
"That is what I regret."
"It is? Well... I suppose you should have let it go unsaid, then..."
"That is not what I mean."
"One as clever as you can accomplish nearly anything so long as he has clear knowledge of his surroundings. But everyone has their strengths and weaknesses. I urged you on, despite knowing that what lay ahead was not something you were suited for. I knew it wasn't something you wished for."
"In any case, if you'd had the backbone to cross swords with them, you would've already been using my abilities to their fullest extent."
"You seem to wish for a steady, reliable course of events, and I can see that it suits you. But what I pushed you into is the precise opposite of that. Is it not so?"
"Still,"
"Still, it hurts a bit to hear that you don't consider me suited to such things."
"But you aren't, are you?"
"When you say it so plainly, I can't seem to be angry at you."
"But I'm not going to drop out of this story,"
"Especially when you make faces like that."
"Ugh..."
"If you're this regretful, it must mean you're expecting me to encounter something extraordinary."
"It seems as though you've plans to write about your travels with me."
"Huh?"
"And if so, wouldn't that make you the protagonist? I wanted my protagonist to act like one. At least... at least if I'm to be but a side character."
"But that is truly naught but my own selfishness. Should that desire put you in harm's way or cause you to wander so sadly out into a courtyard at night like this, it pains me,"
"I do see what you're trying to say, but..."
"The more you say such things, the more unable I am to back down."
"Aye, and 'tis why I did not wish to tell you..."
"Because I'd be stubborn?"
"Surely you understand how costly 'twould be to ignore my care."
"..."
"Do you truly understand?"
"I believe I do."
"Truly?"
"Of course,"
"Come, fill the pitcher and let us return. 'Tis cold."
"Do you truly not mind leaving your companion behind?"
"No, it is fine."
"So then, you have only to explain to Madam Bolan what I told you earlier. My own preparations have become rather complicated, so any independent action on your part could easily create small holes, which will quickly become large problems,"
"Well, then. I shall be counting on you."
"Fellows!"
"In the name of our patron, Saint Lambardos, may our guild be triumphant!"
"To triumph!"
New Convo:

"There you are."
"How's business?"
"So bad I can't even drink,"
"Have you any idea how much it saddens me to see you here?"
"Was it time for your nap?"
"Exactly so. Look how much I've been talking in my sleep."
"Once I was crossing the sea out there, and I happened to be on a ship with a group of pilgrims. We had the rotten luck to be attacked by pirates."
"At first the cowering pilgrims prayed to God, but once 112/197 several sailors were killed and it seemed all hope was lost, what do you think they started doing?"
"I'm sure I don't know,"
"Those pilgrims finally started just going at it! I watched them do it and thought to myself what strange, powerful creatures humans are."
"So what did you do, Miss Eve?"
"I went through their belongings to collect the money I'd need to buy my own life back."
"I was told to give this to you."
"There's no need for me to see it,"
"All I'm interested in is whether you're my ally or not."
"Or more accurately, whether I'll listen to what you tell me to do in the end or not."
"Hmm... it's so close to my expectations it's a bit unnerving. Almost as though you told them about our secret meeting."
"You jest,"
"So, he's finally come to the table, has he...?"
"What do you think?"
"Given that you've received my message, my job's been completed without incident."
"The northern landlords exchange a note of deed transfer of their land for the narwhal. I split the profits with the northern traitor, and your guild gets the profit from having bested their competitors."
"Everybody's satisfied,"
"It's a hard thing, not being able to see the hearts of others with your own eyes."
"Do you know who Kieman is connected with?"
"No."
"Does it seem realistically possible to secretly steal the narwhal?"
"Perhaps by bribing the guards on watch."
"The deed transfer will be written by the landlord's son, who has no actual authority. It may not carry any actual weight. What does Kieman plan to do about that?"
"The third-generation head has already paid his respects to the nearby landlords, and jurisdiction of the town is shared by the council, the Church, and the landlords. So long as they have grounds to assert their rights, things should work out."
"I see. And you believe what Kieman says?"
"I do not believe his words, but I am going along with him."
"A perfect answer. But not enough to bridge the distance that separates us."
"What would be the best choice for you, Miss Eve?"
"I told you, didn't I? To betray one and all and take all the profit for myself."
"You couldn't possibly-"
"Why would you be so childishly selfish?"
"Childish? That's right, it's childish."
"When a child burns herself in a fireplace, she fears it even when the fire is out."
"... If that were so, then merchants would have no choice but to sit alone in empty rooms, trembling and afraid."
"I wasn't always a merchant."
"-"
"Don't you think it ridiculous? That by exchanging a few slips of paper and a few of the formless words that come from our mouths, we can gain such money as can buy a human life."
"Have you ever been betrayed by someone you completely trusted? Whom can you trust then? The only one I trust is myself when I'm betraying another."
"When your own life was on the line, you asked me, didn't you? What lies at the end of my road of greed? And I answered, didn't I? What I'm looking forward to..."
"... Is that someday I'll be satisfied, and I'll be able to reach a world with no worry, and no suffering."
"Fine, then. I accept Kieman's proposal. You tell him that for me."
"You tell him."
"... Understood."
"Hey, why not join me?"
"What, to join you even knowing I'd been fooled?"
"Exactly."
"I don't want to believe I've been fooled,"
"I suppose not."
"The boss says, 'Understood.'"
"What should I do?"
"The meeting will be in recess soon. You'll get your instructions after that."
"I understand."
"Right, you'll pick up your next message from us at the prearranged location."
"I'm sorry, sir. We've no seats left! Will that be all right?"
"Sir,"
"You're quite swift."
"Certainly. The boss's work needs quick resolve."
"So, here."
"Indeed,"
"What's the matter?"
"It's nothing,"
"Please wait here."
"The boss is getting impatient,"
"He says the current is growing stronger. And that we must row faster in order to keep up with it."
"...?"
"... It can't be,"
"A message for Mr. Kieman."
"There is a possibility that the wolf is a decoy."
"Please deliver this."
"-"
"Did you not tell him?"
"I'm not saying this for no reason. And I know why your orders are so strict. But they're not all-knowing gods, and no human can draw a picture of a town they've never been to. They say seeing is believing, and that's the truth. There's still time. You have to tell them-"
"Enough!"
"We just have to do as we're told, you and me."
"Everyone makes mistakes. Sometimes there are things you have to be there to see. It's the duty of the people on the bottom to fix those mistakes, isn't it?"
"You forget yourself, merchant. We're just tools. We don't think. Arms and legs don't have their own heads. Do you get that?"
"If you understand, then take this letter. I have orders from the boss. And so do you,"
"You seem pleased,"
"You truly are planning to keep all the profit from the narwhal, aren't you?"
"Fleur Bolan."
"You're really not cut out to be a merchant."
"And I doubt you're cut out to be a wolf."
"I had planned to survive, no matter who I had to use to do so, but it seems I won't be able to ignore reality for much longer."
"When the trouble in this city first started, the furs I'd put most of my worth into were confiscated. Arold, who'd fled Lenos with me, was arrested. Under circumstances like these, I haven't the courage to be a wolf any longer."
"My name has always been a convenient tool. Only my grandfather and a few eccentrics have ever called me by it. Of them, probably the only one still alive is Arold."
"So you're saying that you wish to be called by your name?"
"... When you put it so plainly, it's embarrassing. No, please don't be angry. I'm happy. I'm pleased we're friendly enough now we don't have to fight with knives and hatchets. I'm surprised myself, truly. I had thought it wouldn't be so very difficult to manipulate you. You're an awfully soft touch, after all. And yet..."
"But I couldn't stand you not knowing. Of course, I won't mind if you don't believe me."
"When this is all over, I'm leaving this rotten place. So in the end..."
"In the end, you're going to make sure they say your name. Is that it?"
"That's right. In the end, I'm going to betray them magnificently, and I shall make them call my name."
"Even if they cry out 'Eve Bolan' in rage?"
"Even so."
"Now then, let me ask this of Kraft Lawrence, who so kindly calls me by name."
"Will you betray them with me?"
New Convo:

"Sorry to keep you waiting."
"This is the last one, but you must bring her response."
"must"
"Understood. I will."
"Early tomorrow morning, we'll make a show of formally bringing the narwhal out. On the river we'll exchange the narwhal and the ship it's on for the deed of land. After that, get lost. Signed, Lud Kieman."
"It's a simple, naive exchange. What do you think?"
"If things go poorly, we can always capsize the boat to obscure the truth, so it doesn't seem like such a very bad idea."
"I see,"
"So perhaps I should write something like this, eh?"
"Understood. I, Eve Bolan, shall ride upon the boat for the exchange. Aboard your boat shall be the creature of legend, as well as-"
"-Kraft Lawrence."
"I haven't given you my response."
"Response? You say the strangest things sometimes. Of what value are words to liar merchants like us?"
"Trading is a dangerous business. Only God can see the mind of another, but God has no desires. Only humans stained by their greed, trade, and nothing is more dangerous than trusting the greedy. I've written my reply to Kieman, and you'll take it to him. As far as the outcome goes, we might pray or threaten, but all we can do is wait. I've played my whole hand. So all I can do is give you this letter."
"Kieman will do as this letter instructs. If he defied it and put an additional person on the boat, then we'd have to add another person to ours, and with each side suspicious of the other, there's no telling how far the arms race would go. So-"
"So when next we meet, it will be upon that lonely river amid the morning mists."
"May I ask one thing?"
"What?"
"I have my companions."
"Yes, and I have Arold."
"I've given you my reply. Go,"
"... Thanks for all your hard work. The boss'll tell you the rest once you're back at the inn,"
"Hey... don'cha go bumpin' inta me..."
"Hey, are you listenin' ta-"
"Excuse me."
"Things have gone bad."
"It's too late for me... but I wanted to at least..."
"-"
"What happened?"
"We stick out too much here. We should find an alley somewhere-"
"Where are you going?"
"Given the state my friend's in, I was taking her to the inn."
"Is that so?"
"How truly fortunate for us to encounter you here."
"No, I-"
"... You do indeed seem to be carrying a letter. May I assume the sender is Ted Reynolds?"
"Well, we'll hear all about it. Although we don't have terribly much time."
"The wolf tried to set us up. Quite thoroughly, I should add."
"The possibility had occurred to me, of course, but the method - my goodness."
"You're wrong... I had no intention of selling the narwhal to Reynolds-"
"Mr. Lawrence, if you speak of this to anyone else, you'll regret it."
"I'm quite desperate myself, you see."
"... If you speak of this to anyone else, you'll regret it. I'm quite desperate myself you see."
"Shit!"
"So, then,"
"There has to be,"
"Should you need wisdom, I'll lend it,"
"That's fine."
"I do wonder just how many times you'll borrow my wisdom to save another female, though."
"Yet you're the only one I travel with."
"I sent Col to follow them."
"What did you find out at the port?"
"I know not. But before you came ashore, I did see a group of people turning angry. I'd set myself up on the third floor of the baker's shop over there. 'Twas so easy to see, it was to laugh."
"I imagine that's probably because the northerners are trying to find a way to buy the narwhal."
"Hmm..."
"But if that were all, Kieman would have panicked, and Eve wouldn't have taken the risk of coming to see me. Something totally outside of their expectations must have happened to cause this."
"'Tis a shabby town, this is. It doesn't seem to have much coin."
"That's right. And Reynolds is supposed to be at the center of this."
"If he doesn't have it, he would have to borrow."
"Exactly. If Reynolds truly intends to buy the narwhal, it means he's going to have to collect the capital to do so from somewhere. Ah - so that's why Kieman and Eve were so upset."
"Money and power are close partners. If the narwhal trade is connected to someone wealthy and powerful, the matter becomes much more complicated. Do you see?"
"... If the food you ordered never arrives, you have but to demand your money returned."
"If their meal doesn't arrive, it's their practice to demand compensation in money or blood. Which means... if this speculation is correct, there's only one place Kieman would take Eve."
"The church?"
"Uh, er, why are you here?"
"Kieman's in there, eh? Well, if I'm going to save her I'm going to have to get in and speak to him face-to-face. So how do you think we should attack?"
"What's your business?"
"We have business with Lud Kieman of the Rowen Trade Guild."
"... Inside,"
"..."
"I would speak with Mr. Kieman."
"Do you not get that you were deliberately spared?"
"We merchants love to snatch chestnuts from the fire, after all."
"And do you not understand that I am here deliberately to negotiate?"
"Is there a problem?"
"I'd like to speak with my acquaintance."
"That's very direct of you. Do you think I will allow that?"
"I don't expect it will be easy, no."
"How about this? I haven't the luxury of wasting time on you. Fortunately, this church has many other rooms."
"Of course you do. But I'm surprised you would assume I came here unprepared."
"Oh?"
"No, perhaps I should put it this way - I truly thought you spared me because it would be too much trouble to bring me in."
"Miss Eve tried all sorts of things to bring me over to her side. She even helped me ensure my own safety. For example-"
"She sold me several parchments with your signature on them."
"I notice your companion isn't that girl."
"She's the quicker one, after all. And even a girl can carry a few papers in her breast pocket."
"..."
"Understood."
"Escort them in."
"If you've anything I need, I'll pay you a fair price for it."
"This way."
"Don't even consider trying to escape."
"Certainly not,"
"I've come to talk with you."
"And what... joke would you care to hear?"
"The first thing a merchant does in a new town is gather information."
"Indeed. I'm surprised he let you in... Ah, the boy's with you. I see."
"Flowers won't be enough of a gift to give that girl now that you've made her wait alone for your return."
"... I got a fist in the face the last time."
"Ha-ha. She's a stout one, it's true."
"Well, I'm just relieved you haven't been reduced to tearing your bread into small pieces to eat it."
"Hmph. Kieman doesn't have the nerve to hurt me. Reynolds is dirtpoor, so he must've found some rich northern backer. And around here, there are only a few rich men. And they've no idea how I'm connected to this. About all they can do is yell at me."
"I've told all this to Kieman, but Reynolds's letter might as well have pulled the ladder out from under me. If he's trying to use my agreement with Kieman to control me... it's because I'm useful."
"So it's true that he has a wealthy, powerful backer?"
"Kieman suspects as much, but look at Reynolds's situation - he's the most successful trader on the north side, and that's all he can manage. It's hard to think of a familiar figure who has such money. Of course, it's possible that Reynolds is using someone's knowledge to make a purchase order without actually having the money."
"What's his goal?"
"To take money from people like us, who are caught up in a secret narwhal deal."
"By saying, 'If you don't want us interfering in your carefully arranged, once-in-a-lifetime gamble, pay up.'"
"The northerners are fighting a losing battle. It's hardly surprising some of them are starting to suggest they grab what profit can be had. There are probably others who are mad enough to try to convince the people around them of that, and if they push it, it'll work. They'll panic and pay. Of course, we're probably the only ones bold enough to just sell off the narwhal itself."
"Of course, given that Kieman's holding me here, that means the odds that Reynolds placed a buy order despite not having any money are low. Kieman fears me being taken in by the northerners more than anything else, so him keeping me here means he's decided Reynolds does have a powerful backer. And as for me... that's why I came to see you, since there were too many clues along those lines."
"I didn't think it would come to this,"
"If you've figured out this much, you should be able to learn the rest by watching the town for a few days. But whether Reynolds has the money or not or has managed to somehow raise it, this will probably be the last time we meet."
"They're all quite skilled here. I'll be happy if I can die without much pain."
"D-do you mean they'll destroy the evidence?"
"I've got a mouth, after all."
"And in the end, you went along with my childish selfishness. Such fun..."
"No matter how terrible the feast, if the last dish is tasty, then it wasn't for naught,"
"What can I do to save you?"
"Is he serious?"
"... I've no idea. Unfortunately, I'm no merchant."
"But I can say one thing..."
"You don't have to. He already knows,"
"If there's a chance for my salvation, it can be only this,"
"That Reynolds has raised the money on his own,"
"I'm tired of talking. I haven't slept in two days."
"Sleep well."
"Did you have a worthwhile conversation?"
"Oh, indeed. Miss Eve is quite a conversationalist."
"Will the trade I mediated be canceled?"
"Suppose you lock a baker away in your own shop, but then you go to his to buy bread. Would you consider that a problem of theology?"
"So long as there are money and goods, you don't need another person there to conduct business."
"That's true, but we must discover whether there is actually bread waiting to bought. We can always let the baker return to his bakery, but by that point there's no way to be sure he doesn't hold a grudge. 162/197 We heard he'd bought poison from another shop, you see, so in a panic we locked him away, and..."
"And you'll know whether the poison was bought to kill mice or mixed in with the bread only when you actually eat it."
"Or when the mice die."
"In any case, the wolf seems to like you, so do please mind your own safety. You seem to have taken certain precautions at least."
"Thank you for your consideration,"
"Now then, if you'll show our guests out,"
"Remember this, merchant,"
"Thank you for your fine work."
"Does it anger you?"
"It's only because of Holo's and my selfishness that you're in this situation. No one will blame you if you leave."
"If closing my eyes would make unfair things disappear, I would do that."
"Miss Eve, she... she can still be saved, can't she?"
"At the very least, that's what I'm hoping and working for."
"So his scheme with the copper coin boxes... it won't be enough? Col had been the one to discover Reynolds's manipulation of the crates carrying the copper coins shipped down the Roam River. The number he received was different from the number he shipped - he sent out more than he received. "About all we can imagine there is that he's avoiding paying taxes on the number of boxes he imports. It won't be enough to buy the narwhal."
"..."
"It's important to think hard about these things, but..."
"Huh?"
"First we have to protect ourselves. That's the predicament we're in now."
"Wait! You bastards!"
"Soon, I'd think."
"Ah-"
"'Tis far enough, aye?"
"So I take it you were able to see the vixen?"
"She seemed better than I'd guessed."
"My, my. Still-"
"When you say she was well, was she like this one here?"
"She was tenacious yet somehow upstanding, I'll bet."
"... You don't seem to hate Eve as much as you claim to."
"'Twas a riot at the port, as though a bonfire had been kindled."
"Did someone make a move?"
"Reynolds seemed so humble the other night, but he's quite the actor. Now he's full of boasting. The oppressed can be strong - they wish to pay back in full those who've made them suffer, after all."
"He was negotiating? With the southerners?"
"He kept railing that he was a customer, demanded to be shown what he was buying. I've no particular hatred for the people of this side, but I had to laugh at their nervousness."
"Ah, I suppose your ears cannot hear them. They're three blocks away from us."
"But does that mean he's actually raised the money to buy it?"
"D-does he have the money?"
"'Twas a war of words. He demanded to see the goods, while they demanded to see the money. They were out of their seats in anger, and this Reynolds fellow matched them every time."
"Mr. Lawrence-"
"Yes, but... why? What could this mean?"
"It would be strange for him to have the coin. No matter how quickly he's been able to rally support, it still takes time to turn that into cash. So has he had it hidden away all this time?"
"I know not how. But 'twill be simple enough to discover the truth."
"We know their move. They will go to the church."
"Why? How does he have the money? Whose is it?"
"Mr. Lawrence, at this rate, Miss Eve will-"
"I see three paths."
"One, you can give up. Two, ask me for help. Three-"
"-Go see for ourselves."
"Go... and do what?"
"Things will work out one way or another. When you're cornered, nothing's more powerful than a little misdirection. With no way to be sure of the truth one way or another, whoever makes the most irrefutable argument wins."
"If you can convince Kieman, the vixen may yet be saved."
"So are you sure?"
"Even if not, we have to move,"
"But that's-"
"Not every problem has a satisfactory solution."
"But, but then, Miss Holo, you could-"
"If you were to break into someplace with so many people, could you make sure that they were all unharmed?"
"If the building does not collapse once I smash through the stained glass, aye. Else..."
"We can still run now, if we wish. There are good and bad in your pack, and not all of them are your enemies, aye?"
"..."
"There are many options we can choose, but only one outcome can result."
"Should we not then decide the outcome we want and make our choices thereby?"
"If Reynolds were handling shipments of gold coins..."
"Hmm?"
"... Using the method Col discovered, he could've put aside quite a lot of capital."
"Taxes are no more than twenty or thirty percent of the value of the goods. Still, twenty percent of a crate of gold coins is a huge amount of money. Of course, the coin counts are much stricter for gold, so he couldn't have used the same method, I don't think."
"Hmm. The scheme Col noticed - 'twould work better the other way, I should think."
"The other way?"
"Aye,"
"He brings in sixty crates, then sends along fifty-eight. If he 172/197 keeps two full crates of copper coins, that's quite a bit of profit, is it not?"
"Yes, true. Or he could receive sixty and send sixty along."
"But that would just amount to breaking even, would it not?"
"Oh? The crates he'd send along would simply contain fewer coins than the ones he receives down the river, and he'd pocket the difference. At that rate I'll bet he could put aside a bit more than two crates' worth every time. Of course, in doing so the Debau Company would take a loss."
"Huh?"
"I just said something odd, didn't I?"
"The absolute number of copper coins won't change. What changes is the number of crates, the tax, and... and?"
"The payment! If he can't reverse the money he's trading, he just does it with the payment itself! The Debau Company wouldn't be troubled at all! Because-"
"-If the accounts all balance in the end, there's no problem. No problem at all! I wonder what instructions have come downriver to 173/197 Reynolds? That would explain why he could have a huge amount of cash somewhere yet hesitate to use it! That's it!"
"Let's go,"
"Come, what are you-"
"I am not going,"
"Now of all times? It's fine! I'm not jumping to conclusions - the reasoning is true."
"'Tis not what I mean,"
"So-"
"I've no wish to see you parading about in front of other females,"
"I suppose I can't say I'm shocked."
"Mm. You can leave me behind and run off, can't you?"
"Col."
"Yes! Leave it to me!"
"Heh. I suppose 'tis not such a poor arrangement."
"Now then, you should go. They may be strutting around as though 'tis a festival day, but they'll arrive soon."
"..."
"Y-you-"
"Please, stop!"
"Please, wait! There's no need for this!"
"Who put you to this?! Who paid you off?! Tell me, merchant!"
"Guh-"
"You've got to release Eve! Immediately!"
"Is she breathing?"
"She should just be unconscious,"
"Mer... chant... you-"
"If Eve's alive, I have some welcome news for you."
"What do you mean?"
"Mr. Reynolds managed to raise the money on his own."
"That can't be!"
"I'm a mere traveling merchant, so I've got my hands full trying to turn my own profit. My interests are opposed to Reynolds's, so I can't let him take everything."
"... What... have you found...?"
"I came here in pursuit of the wolf bones, you see."
"Please get off me, Mr. Lawrence,"
"Can it be done?"
"It must be. Of course-"
"That is assuming she doesn't betray us."
"Well, there's a chance to make some money."
"God's face looked sort of like the old man's. I'll have to make sure next time I see him."
"We'll just have to make enough to pay for the trip to heaven."
"Ah, it's true, we merchants are a mad and sinful lot."
"Come! In answer to your request, I have brought my gold to this holy place! You must fulfill your part of the contract!"
"As the second master of the Jean Company, I have come to record a trade that will go down in our history!"
"That's everything I can think of, I believe."
"With taxes, shipping fees, and hush money, I suppose that will about suffice. I've seen the Debau Company, and they should be able to hide something of this scale."
"Mr. Lawrence, how's the sanctuary?"
"As we expected. Reynolds is being relentless, but naturally the southerners can't respond immediately. That should give us some time."
"Well, shall we move?"
"Here. Your last job."
"I'd hoped to meet you on the river,"
"Better for me to see you off on your travels under the sun. After all, I'm the merchant you cheated."
"Now then, if you'll be so kind as to wait here."
"Mr. Reynolds,"
"Well, well! What have we here?"
"Yes, actually, a certain woman asked me to deliver this."
"Oh ho."
"It seems to be a request for trade."
"Given that you trade in a large volume of goods, Mr. Reynolds, she requests an inspection of your ledgers. Said inspection will be conducted by a keen-eyed representative of my trade guild."
"... Ah... er..."
"We have evidence regarding your trade in copper coins, showing that you received fifty-eight crates from the Debau Company but sent sixty to the Winfiel kingdom - though at first we assumed you were merely evading tariffs."
"But you weren't manipulating tariffs to make a bit of coin on the side. You were cooperating with the Debau Company to shift large amounts of capital downstream."
"You received payment for sixty crates from Winfiel, then paid Debau for fifty-eight. So long as you look at each transaction separately, they seem to add up in the ledger. But as to whether the number of coins in the crates matches the amount paid - that's not clear from the books."
"But if we compare imports and exports, it's clear that each time the two-crate difference remains at the Jean Company, doesn't it? And you can use that method for all sorts of things."
"Copper ore, lead, tin, brass, and goods made from them. So long as they have a standard shape and are round, you can do this. The Roef mines are rich with metals, are they not?"
"N-no... but-"
"Are you suggesting that this is simply a secret shift of capital? I'm afraid that simply isn't so. Shall we send my people to visit the Debau Company? When I first noticed your dishonesty, the first thing I assumed was that you were trying to avoid tariffs. But taxes are important. What would happen if the Debau Company was unwilling to pay theirs?"
"Your method lets the Debau Company evade taxation, too. Each time they trade copper coin with the Jean Company, they lose two crates of coins from their books. And if there's no profit, they don't have to pay taxes. Now, then-"
"What do you want? How much? What's your goal? Tell me!"
"I am a mere messenger. Such negotiations..."
"... Will need to be discussed with my associates there."
"Now, if you'll excuse me. I'm a mere traveling merchant trying to find some wolf bones, after all,"
"I'm back."
"Welcome back."
"So, where is our next destination?"
"Good question... Mmm, this is delicious. What meat is this?"
"Eve's going to send someone around to tell us what they managed to learn from Reynolds about the wolf bones, so on that count you needn't worry."
"Mm. 'Tis a mere verbal contract,"
"You're well aware of how important verbal contracts are, aren't you?"
"Anyway, my guess is we'll end up crossing the channel..."
"The sea?"
"They're an island nation that imports foreign currency, so they're full of people who excel at buying all sorts of things."
"You can eat shrimp heads. They're rather tasty."
"Wha...?"
"Hmph,"
"You two eat nicely,"
"Honestly,"
"It's probably Eve's messenger,"
"My, perhaps I should've gone in,"
"You jest. Still, I didn't expect you to come yourself."
"You wound me. I'm not the kind who forgets a debt - and I owe you my life."
"So, about what you asked me."
"What news?"
"It turns out Reynolds did have some notion of where the bones went."
"Some notion?"
"I mean, his conclusion was just short of mine."
"Don't be angry. I didn't think things would turn out this way."
"And?"
"Heh. I don't feel like you had such a serious face yesterday."
"I'll just say it - it's in the Winfiel kingdom, my homelands, at the Great Blondel Monastery. Do you know it?"
"Blon... Wait, not the golden sheep?"
"Oh ho, so you know the tale. Here on the mainland, only the older generation seems to know of it. But yes, the great monastery with the legend of the golden sheep."
"Evidently the monastery bought the bones, though who's to say whether that's true."
"No, thank you, truly. I'll be certain to repay-"
"Don't be rude now. The fact is I'm in your debt. I got both Arold and my fur back. I've readied a ship heading south. So you see-"
"I hope you'll forgive me."
"...-!"
"... This scent, is it abi leaf? Kieman must've treated you to quite a feast."
"You taught me that business is most profitable when you take your opponent by surprise. That was payment for the lesson."
"My name might be of some use in Winfiel. Fleur von Eiterzental Bolan. That's my formal name, but there's another name known only to those close to me. Fleur von Eiterzental Mariel Bolana. I rather like the sound of Mariel,"
"I hope it's of some use to you, Lawrence."
"It will be."
"Kraft Lawrence... I'm glad I met you."
"I'll never forget the name Eve Bolan."
"Heh. Wherever you find money, you'll find me. I'm sure we'll meet again."
"Huh? What's wrong?"
"Um, she told me to go out and see."
"Wait here in the hall for a bit,"
"I don't want to remember what happened next."