
"Come, can you not walk a bit faster?!"
"Can we walk a bit slower? Just for a little while."
"Walk? Walk, you say? So did you walk when you came to meet me then?"
"N-no! I ran. I ran!"
"Out of my way!"
"Where is the old man?"
"Th-the old man?"
"The old man with the beard! The master of this shop. Where is he? " Going by their outwardly apparent ages, the two craftsmen would have been three times Holo's age, but they were so cowed by her threatening attitude that they looked to each other hastily before one spoke. "Er, he just asked us to look after the place while he was gone, but we don't know where..."
"Rrrrrr,"
"He must have gone off with that fox... Perhaps they think to make fools of us. Come, you! Let us go!"
"There's something I'd like to ask you,"
"What do you plan to do next?"
"What shall I do, you ask?"
"Even if we're leaving the town,"
"we'll need a travel plan."
"A-a travel plan, you say?!"
"It wouldn't be good to charge out of town on some vague notion."
"Some... vague notion? Do you not wish to recover our profit from that vixen?"
"The vixen - ah, you mean Eve. And the profit-"
"We must get it back! She swindled you and made off with the coin! We must get our due!"
"As in the gold before?"
"I-I mean, are you not frustrated? She's gotten away from us!"
"That is true, yes. But in terms of practical problems that face us, there is a significant one."
"... What do you mean?"
"Eve surely constructed her plan with care. Mere happenstance would never have let her find a ship so quickly. She must have made arrangements in advance. Given that, I highly doubt we can immediately set off after her. Even if we wanted to follow her on horseback, the stables will be as chaotic as the rest of the town is."
"What of your horse, then?"
"Him? He's strong, to be sure, but there's no telling how well he'd do if we made him run over a long distance. Horses bred for speed are nothing like draft horses,"
"What's more, Eve spoke as though she had already arranged a buyer downriver in Kerube. Eve was discussing plans with the assumption that the church would give chase, so she no doubt already has an escape plan prepared."
"P-perhaps that is so, but I still cannot accept it. I'll not be satisfied unless we give chase,"
"I understand why you wouldn't be satisfied by that..."
"I'm right, am I not?"
"And it's true that this is a net loss so far..."
"Aye. And she drew blood from you, do not forget! I'll make her understand that when one harms my companion, they harm me!"
"So it's pursuit, is it?"
"Aye. My first hunt in quite some time,"
"Don't forget, though-"
"I-I am a merchant. I have my pride and my honor, but I'm not some knight who earns money only to bring himself fame. If it seems as though this will only worsen my losses, we'll pursue her no further. Do you understand?"
"I do this only for you,"
"So long as you are satisfied... aye. It cannot be helped."
"I appreciate it,"
"Well then, how shall we go about this pursuit?"
"How? Will we not go by wagon?"
"It will take perhaps five days by wagon. Do you think you can endure that?"
"Ugh... five days on the wagon..."
"There are a scattering of villages between here and there - and inns, too, but they're far from luxurious."
"W-well, if that's so, then what of the river?"
"The river?"
"Aye. If that vixen escaped by the river, we ought follow her. 'Tis the most obvious course."
"Well, that depends on whether there's a ship-"
"Not 'whether'! We will find one!"
"Don't be unreasonable,"
"Or is my plan... too much trouble?"
"If 'tis too much of a bother, do please say so. 'Tis only for your sake that I wish to track down that vixen, but... I know that from time to time, I do act a bit rashly. Come now,"
"I was so happy, you see,"
"I was so happy, yes - happy that you said you loved me. So please-"
"Fine, fine! We'll find a boat and head downriver! Will that be enough?"
"Well then, shall we hurry and pack our things?"
"... What?"
"We are going to the trouble of traveling by ship,"
"Do you not wish to eat some wheaten bread first?"
"Did I not just explain that we've taken a loss?"
"All the more reason, then! If we're already in the red, we may as well drive the figure up!"
"What sort of reasoning is that?!"
"I thought you loved me."
"Aye, that's true. But I also love money,"
New Convo:

"Ahoy there, you fool! Pull in that prow! I'm carrying silver from Imidra!"
"What's that? We were here first! You pull in your prow!"
"Come, do not stand there gawping - we must find a ship!"
"I suppose it's a bit late to ask, but are you quite all right aboard a ship?"
"You were the one who said the wagon would take too much time and be too much trouble."
"Well, yes, but..."
"..."
"What?"
"You're in no hurry to board."
"No, that's not it."
"Well, then let us find a vessel."
"Fine, fine. I'll go find a boat. You go pick up some food from that stall over there. Three days' worth should be enough. And wine - the stronger the better."
"And what of wheat bread?"
"Bread needs yeast to make it rise. So, too, does money to buy that bread."
"..."
"Why then the strong liquor?"
"You'll understand soon enough."
"I'll haggle them down and be sure to load up on the good stuff, then, eh?"
"We don't need it in volume."
"Aye. Shall we meet back up somewhere around there?"
"Yes... ouch-!"
"... Your thoughts are quite obvious,"
"I was taught as a child that honesty is a virtue."
"And do you really think so?"
"I suppose my master also taught me that honesty is a fool's errand."
"So much so that I can't help making fun of you."
"What contest?"
"Still, what business could you have in Kerube? No respectable boat will be headed there in this season."
"Unsurprisingly, it has to do with the fur trade."
"Oh?"
"You don't look like you have any cargo."
"My onetime business partner made off with it."
"So, where is this companion of yours?"
"Ah, she's off buying rations-"
"-And here she is."
"Oh ho! Such a fine cargo!"
"By the by, what's her name?"
"It's Holo."
"Ho! A fine name! Pleased to meet you. I'm Ragusa, master of the Roam River!"
"But this means we'll be sure to make the passage downriver safely, too!"
"Meaning...?"
"The market's declared that it should be a beautiful maiden that's fitted to a ship's prow to pray for her safety!"
"So, are you ready? We're not scheming to move fur like everybody else is, but we do have some cargo that needs to be hurried,"
"Ah, er, yes. Were you able to procure food?"
"Then go ahead and sit anywhere that's free. You'll pay up when we get there."
"Just pretend you're riding on a great ship,"
"What's so funny?"
"I was just thinking I used to be as nervous as you are."
"Mmph... I've no particular fear of water, but 'tis unsettling indeed when the craft rocks."
"It is because I trust you that I would admit weakness."
"I can see your teeth behind that sneer."
"This won't do. I cannot start getting along with you now,"
"That sounds like a line out of a stage play."
"Could you not just play along?"
"Not so long as your face is so malicious."
"Well then, let us be off!"
"Watch the finest ship handling in three kingdoms!"
"Hmm?"
"Your kindness is so very frightful,"
"For my part, I'm afraid of your smile."
"Fool."
"There's nothing to do,"
"Mmph. I'm just happy not to have to be holding the reins."
"Why don't you try counting sheep? I'm sure you'd go to sleep eventually."
"I was counting until a moment ago. I gave up around seventy-two."
"Anyway,"
"counting sheep will only make me hungry."
"That won't do. You'd best stop."
"Still,"
"Once we've made it down the river and taken the vixen to task, what then?"
"Here, hold still... What then, you ask?"
"Aye. After."
"Food and amusements are plentiful where we're going, so we could easily wait until the snow melts in the mountains. Or if we're in a hurry, we could arrange for horses back to Lenos, then head north."
"Into the Roef Mountains, you mean."
"Still, the mountains change when people get into them. If we head up the Roef River, we might well lose our way."
"If we got as far as Nyohhira, you'd know the way, correct? My guess is it would take ten days from Lenos to Nyohhira. If we can't wait for spring, it will be closer to twenty days - we'll need to take a path that runs through as many towns and villages as possible."
"Ten days for a leisurely soak in the hot springs of Nyohhira,"
"You are making your money-counting face,"
"There were people there when I passed through, and even I would take human form and use the hot springs sometimes, so I understand the system. But I am Holo, the Wisewolf of Yoitsu. If there's no one there, you need only add a little bit to your expenses."
"little bit"
"Every time you make me spend a bit more on food, my own dreams get that much further away."
"I have a variety of ways to tease you, but first,"
"are you not the one who kicked aside his dream of owning a store and instead came for me?"
"For one thing, I may have kicked it aside, but I didn't give up on it."
"Though I suppose I did kick it aside in earnest, more or less."
"'Tis the nature of merchants to use vague words to leave themselves loopholes, I suppose,"
"No, I truly kicked it aside."
"I'll wait to suggest wasting some money until after I hear your reason for doing so."
"Thank you ever so kindly,"
"If I opened a shop, I expect I'd take about half as much pleasure in actually doing business."
"... Huh?"
"When the moment that I'd been waiting for was finally upon me, I suddenly realized it - that once I had a shop, my days of adventuring would be over."
"hmm"
"Still, you should take into consideration that I feel this way because it was my dream for so long. If I were to get a shop, it wouldn't be an unhappy thing."
"Aye, I suppose... there was some misfortune."
"Yes... wait, what? Misfortune?"
"Yes, was there not? You had a dream but cast it aside and came for me instead. It's enough to make even the person who first said the words 'he who chases two rabbits will catch neither' throw their hands up in dismay."
"Are you quite all right? Come now, take heart. After all, you haven't gained a thing, have you?"
"Heh. In truth, have you even reached out to me? What a strange notion, to gain something without first reaching for it."
"Though I suppose 'tis not as though such territory is marked with visible ropes. How you consider that is up to you,"
"In the end, 'tis my wish that you not abandon your dream. And if you find owning a shop satisfying, you might next take an apprentice, might you not? 'Tis a rather profound thing, and you'll never have a day of rest,"
"Wait, have you ever taken an apprentice?"
"Hmm? Oh yes. I am Holo the Wisewolf, after all. Many wished to learn from me."
"Huh."
"Well, I do not know if you could quite properly call them 'apprentices' though I'm sure they styled themselves as such. In any case, I was the greatest. If you wanted to receive my teachings, hmm. You'd have had to wait behind a hundred certainly."
"Of course, you do not just seek my teachings; you would try to take my reins - a rare fool, indeed. You can't hope to succeed, but there's no mistaking that you wish to look into my eyes as an equal. I've been alone on the mountaintop for a long time. I've had quite enough of looking down on others."
"Come now, you did come after me, did you not?"
"But now, I..."
"I truly, truly enjoy looking up at you thus."
"No doubt because the face you're looking up to is a fool's face indeed,"
"This is a checkpoint of the Diejin dukedom, which recently had a change of leadership. We'll include the head count tax in your fare - apparently he's mad about deer hunting, so taxes are high, my friend!"
"The duke's never seen the field of battle, yet he proclaims himself the finest shot in the world with a bow. In other words, he thinks he can't but loose an arrow without hitting a deer."
"Ah,"
"It must be quite a burden on his household."
"On top of that, he's dead set on capturing the heart of his chosen princess. Of course, there's the rumor that he's started realizing the truth about his own abilities."
"Have you something you wish to say?"
"No, nothing."
"Strange to see such quarreling,"
"Do you think there's a complaint about the high toll?"
"Doubtful. It's only the ones coming from the sea that complain about the taxes. They have to pay for horses to pull their craft upstream, then pay cargo taxes on top of that."
"But isn't that true for both seagoing and river-going ships?"
"For those like us, who live by the river, the river is home. It's only natural to pay rent for one's home. But for the sailors of the ocean, it's merely a road. It's no wonder they're angry - anyone would be angry if they had to pay simply to walk down the road."
"But the seal of the duke is right here!"
"What is the matter?"
"I don't know. Wait - shouldn't you have been able to hear what they were shouting about?"
"Not even I can hear such things while napping."
"True enough. You can't even hear your own snoring."
"It's a fake, I tell you! If you don't get yourself hence, we've got other ideas!"
"Who's that? The Lennon master's apprentice?"
"If he were, he wouldn't be aboard ship with such a worried face."
"Mm, true. Oh, could it be...?"
"Mind yourself, lad,"
"Now then, moving on to the toll..."
"He's been swindled."
"Hmm?"
"It happens sometimes. Forged tax exemption documents or fake demands of payment from a local lord. On a larger scale, tax collection authorization documents for this river have probably been caught."
"Hmm."
"I feel a bit sorry for him,"
"He'll learn something from this,"
"You think me unfeeling, do you?"
"As I recall, when your own avarice caused you to stumble, you walked all over the city, desperate for aid."
"Perhaps, but I was still the one doing the walking."
"Honestly."
"I'm not so cold as to turn away someone asking for help. But trying to save someone who isn't trying to save himself, well - it's no way to be a merchant. If you're going to do that, you may as well change into priests' robes and head for the nearest church."
"So if he'll stand up on his own, or else..."
"Master!"
"Master! It's me! It's me!"
"Wh... wha-?"
"Oh, I'm so glad to see you! I had nothing to eat and was in a real jam! I must thank the gods for this good fortune!"
"You runt!"
"If I fail here I'll surely die,"
"Don't forget what you just said."
"You've got some nerve, sullying the name of Duke Diejin!"
"Wait, please!"
"Ungh,"
"It's true - I do know the boy!"
"Quite softhearted of you,"
"Hey, you're holding up the line! Move your boat out!"
"We've come this far, so I guess it can't be helped,"
"Here, water,"
"Thank... you."
"When you've calmed yourself, you should sleep. Will this blanket be enough, I wonder?"
"The blessings of God be upon both of... you..."
"Should I now do the same for you?"
"It's the privilege of children to be cared for so,"
"From where I stand, you're still a child."
"Quite a handful! Is he all right at least?"
"I wonder who cheated him. It didn't happen this year, but come the cold season, a great number of people come from the south, and among them are swindlers aplenty. The year before last, there was a forger so skilled that not just children, but even sharp merchants were being taken in by him. Maybe people became wise to it, because since then, you hardly ever see them. The boy must have run into one of the very last ones."
"Mr. Ragusa, how do you spell Duke Diejin's name?"
"Mm, like so..."
"Also the seal is a fake,"
"Copying the true seal is punishable by hanging."
"You'll be paying the extra fare, though, don't forget,"
"Ah, er... yes. Of course."
New Convo:

"So, how much did you pay for these papers?"
"One trenni... and eight lute."
"That's quite an investment... Was the traveling peddler you bought them from so impressive-looking?"
"Hardly. Dressed in rags, he was, and with no right arm."
"He's famous around here,"
"Walks around selling his papers. I bet he said something like this to you, aye? Look at this stump of mine - I've risked this much danger to come by these, but I'm not long for this world. I'm thinking of returning home, so I'll turn these deeds over to you."
"Can you read, though?"
"A little..."
"More than half of these aren't even forgeries."
"... Wh-what do you mean, sir?"
"Most of these are documents stolen from some trading firm somewhere. Look here, there are even notices of payment sent,"
"If this is the kind of thing you bought, I see them all the time. These papers themselves aren't good for drawing any money, but they're good for getting a laugh among merchants. They were stolen from some trading firm somewhere and have been passed around from one merchant to another since then,"
"One of my customers got tricked by them, too,"
"Who would steal this?"
"Usually an apprentice at the firm who's gotten tired of being worked too hard - they'll grab them on their way out as a final piece of pay. Rival firms will pay a decent price for the information they contain, and of course, there are swindlers who will buy them up as well. It's advice that gets passed along from one young apprentice to another. If you take money, the company will come after you in earnest. But with something like this, the firm has its reputation to consider, so it's harder for them to pursue."
"Huh?"
"Consider how it would look for a firm to madly chase down a missing copy of its ledger - people would think there was something extraordinary on that ledger, wouldn't they? And that's bad for business."
"You know what they say, 'Ignorance is a sin'? What do you say, lad - you've no money anyway, so what say I buy these in exchange for your food and fare?"
"F-for how much?"
"Ten lute."
"..."
"Th-that's too low."
"I see. Keep them, then,"
"Twenty lute, then. I can go no higher."
"Don't tease the boy overmuch."
"I accept your offer..."
"That's not quite enough to make it all the way to Kerube, though. We'll have to let you off on the way, or else..."
"Ah, I suppose it's all right,"
"There'll be odd jobs on along the way. Lend a hand, and I'm sure I can make it worth your time."
"We'll never catch the vixen like this..."
"Still, it's faster than a wagon,"
"I wonder,"
"That boy, he's quite earnest."
"Hmm? Oh yes."
"Master"
"Oh, indeed, to get taken in the way he was, he would have to be earnest."
"I heard somewhere that the more earnest the man, the easier a mark he is."
"Heh. So, have you found anything of interest?"
"... A few things, I suppose."
"Hmph. For example?"
"For example, here. An order letter for copper coins."
"Copper... coins? Why would you buy money of all things? Are there still others playing at that scheme from before?"
"No, this is just because they need them. They've paid a bit above market price, look. 'Per usual, transport costs and customs duties are the responsibility of the buyer.' This is proof of regular purchases."
"Hmm... wait a moment. I feel as though I remember hearing something. Why would they do that...? I seem to remember..."
"I have it. It's for small change!"
"Oh ho, you've been paying attention."
"Indeed,"
"These are being specifically imported to be used as change. If someone comes to shop, and you don't have change ready, you won't do proper business. Travelers constantly take small change out of a city. This coin is probably crossing the channel by way of Kerube. The island kingdom of Winfiel is on the other side of the channel, and it's famously short on currency. That's why currency that circulates this way is called 'rat coin.'"
"When war is imminent or a nation's situation is unstable, travelers and money flow out of the region, like rats fleeing a sinking ship - hence the term."
"I see. Quite an apt phrase."
"Indeed, I'd quite like to meet whoever invented it... hmm?"
"So? What is it?"
"Hmm? Ah, yes, the company name that's written here... I feel as though I've seen it somewhere. Maybe it was somewhere in these papers."
"Well done. You're quite the hard worker,"
"Unfortunately, there's nothing worth money here,"
"Don't tease him."
"Ah, here we are."
"Oh?"
"Which is why this has no monetary value."
"Er, urn, I mean-"
"Here."
"See? 'Recorded by Ted Reynolds of Jean Company,' it says."
"What else?"
"The destination is an island nation beyond the channel from Kerube, downriver. It's called the kingdom of Winfiel. Oh, also - this is the home of the vixen."
"Anyway, this is a memo of a variety of different goods collected in the port of Kerube that will be sold to another company - the name isn't here - in Winfiel. These are the goods. Can you read them?"
"A little."
"... Wax, glass bottles, books... buckles? Iron plate... er... tin, gold-smithing. And... ah, nee-?"
"Eni. It's a kind of coin."
"Eni?"
"Indeed. You're quite good."
"Next to the names of the goods are the amounts and the prices. Unfortunately we can't wave this aloft and expect anyone to give us money for it. It would be a different story if there were evidence of smuggling on it, though."
"There isn't any?"
"Unfortunately not. So long as they don't write, 'These are smuggled goods,' there's no way to tell. Unless they're bringing in something obviously prohibited, that is."
"I see..."
"Er, so then..."
"Yes?"
"What is it about this paper?"
"Oh, on another sheet there was a record of a copper coin order, and this was the company that placed the order. Though they're made across the sea, here in Ploania territory, they're a copper coin that's mostly used in Winfiel as small change..."
"What is it?"
"Where's the paper from before?"
"Mm. Here it is."
"Oh ho. An interesting coincidence, indeed,"
"But the numbers don't add up,"
"Hmm?"
"Here it says they bought up fifty-seven chests, but the export was sixty. That's three more."
"... Is there something wrong with that?"
"Well, I mean... with money, for whoever makes it, the more they make, the more they profit. But because there's so much profit in it, the number of sheets they can issue is strictly limited. If 'money is the root of all evil' as they say, then that goes double for creating money. The temptation is very strong. So normally, they are very careful to make only just as much as is ordered."
"But they may or may not send everything they have on hand, may they not? If the destination is across the sea and the ship is unsteady, they might have to send less than the usual amount. So they added the remainder there."
"Well, that may be so, but what it comes down to is a question of belief. I simply believe there is something strange here."
"And what are these chests, then? What do chests have to do with coin counts?"
"Basically, you don't carry a large amount of coins all jangling around in a bag. It takes too long to count."
"Your jokes are clever ones,"
"Suppose you need to transport ten thousand coins. How much time do you think counting those coins will take? If you've moved them all jumbled together in a sack, you have to take them out, pick them up one at a time, then line them up and count them. For one person, it's surely half a day's work."
"So use ten people."
"True. But when it comes to worrying about thieves, it's worse with two people than one, and worse still with three. If just one person is 71/216 doing the counting, and the count comes out wrong, you need only doubt that one person. But with ten, you'd have to suspect all of them, and you'd need a lookout to watch them for theft. That's no business at all."
"Mm,"
"Furthermore, you might not notice if a sack was to be stolen while in transit."
"But is that not the same for a chest?"
"... Oh! I-I see!"
"Are you a student?"
"I'm but a simple traveling merchant. It's all right, lad."
"Hmph,"
"My companion is a greedy merchant, but he's also so soft-hearted I don't know what to do with him. You needn't be afraid."
"Heh. Come now, don't cry. All is well."
"It's just as she says. So, what did you understand?"
"Y-you're really not...?"
"No. I swear to the gods."
"S-so... you want to know why... the coins are in chests?"
"Yes."
"Is it not because, er... with a chest, the coins can be packed snugly within?"
"An excellent answer. It's just so. Chests of a set size are chosen and coins packed precisely into them. So long as the chest size or coin thickness doesn't change, the coins will always fit exactly into the chest, and if even a single one is stolen, it will be immediately obvious. Also, you will always know exactly how many coins a given chest holds. There's no need for extra guards nor extra manpower to count coins. It's a better system in every way,"
"Years ago, I would never have conceived of this. Seems you really are an educated lad."
"But if this three-chest discrepancy really does point to something out of the ordinary, that would be interesting,"
"I've had it with getting into trouble."
"Er, uhm-"
"Mm?"
"What could be 'out of the ordinary'? Just for example, I mean."
"Just for example, eh? Hmm. As proof of illicit coin minting, say."
"That's an example, though - just an example!"
"It's just that thinking of all the possibilities is a good way to kill time aboard ship, that's all,"
"There are all sorts of students, so what sort are you?"
"scholars"
"Er... Ch-church... law."
"Oh?"
"Were you expelled from school?"
"So, for a school in this area... Erisol, perhaps?"
"N-no... it was Aquent."
"Aquent?"
"Sorry. It just seemed a bit far, that's all. It'd take quite some time to make the trip on foot."
"... Yes."
"If I remember correctly, Aquent is a place where sages and scholars meet - a place where streams of pure water flow toward the town center, where the apples of wisdom grow year-round; the conversation exchanged there in a single day compares with all the words from four nations, and if you wrote the day's conversations down, they would reach to the bottom of the ocean. Its name is Aquent, a paradise of reason and wisdom."
"It sounds an amazing place! 'Twould be nice to have apples yearround. A paradise indeed!"
"Um, that's actually... not true,"
"Hmm? R-really...?"
"Er, um, well, but - there are lots of different fruits lined up year-round at the shops. Even lots of rare ones."
"Oh?"
"Like a hairy fruit about this big, that doesn't break even when struck with a hammer - but inside it is a sweet milk."
"If we happen to see any, I'll buy you some."
"But really, Aquent isn't a paradise. There's lots of fighting there,"
"No doubt the inns are full of thieves. If you sleep alone, your clothes will be gone come morning, and if you go to a pub, it will be filled with brawling. When tempers rise, so too do flames, I'll bet,"
"Um, but I did meet some wonderful teachers there, and learned a lot."
"Indeed, to be able to read so well at your age is impressive."
"So, how did you wind up all the way out here?"
"I tried my hand at the book business..."
"The book business?"
"Yes. My teacher's assistant told me that my teacher was going to write new annotations to a certain book and so I should buy copies of that book before the price rose..."
"And did you?"
"Yes."
"I knew I didn't have enough money to see my studies through to the end, so I thought I'd try to turn a profit. And the book's price was going up nearly every day, so I knew if I wanted to make any money, I'd have to buy soon. But I didn't have enough, so I borrowed the money from a merchant friend of the assistant."
"But for some reason, the teacher didn't write the annotations, and... the book turned really cheap,"
"So then I, er, I started traveling about, looking for charity, and I wound up around here. I heard in the winter a lot of people come through here, so there would be a lot of work."
"Ah, the winter campaigns, eh?"
"Yes."
"I see."
"And so after all these twists and turns, you came to our boat,"
"Y-yes, it seems so."
"'Tis quite an amazing encounter. Wouldn't you say?"
"Though it can't be said to have been a fortunate trip, it's come together in the end. The world is indeed full of malice, but there are some pitfalls one can avoid so long as one knows of them - ignorance is a sin, after all. But you needn't worry anymore,"
"Ignorance is... a sin?"
"Quite. But you needn't worry. After all, my companion's weathered all manner of adversity to become a full-fledged marshman... mmph...!"
"Perhaps you'd like to teach him with all the knowledge and experience you've acquired?"
"Hmm? You surely do say the strangest things, sir. Despite my being but a girl of tender years, are you saying that your knowledge and experience would be inferior to my own?"
"Urgh-"
"Why was it that you took such good care of me, eh?"
"Was it because I was so lovely? Are you such a shallow male?"
"That-"
"Fine - fine! Now get off,"
"Quite. That's my companion all right,"
"So does the boy in question actually want to learn?"
"I-I would be honored to accept your instruction."
"I guess it can't be helped, then. Now you're really on board with us."
"You needn't worry. That is what I love about you."
New Convo:

"When someone tells you of a fine opportunity, you need to think about how they will profit from it. Or don't just consider the circumstances that will bring you gain - consider how you stand to lose, as well. Most scams can be avoided by simply doing that much."
"But don't things sometimes go well and sometimes not?"
"Of course. But when you're being swindled, the profit is generally too good. When the balance between the profit and loss is strange, it's better to get out. So if the gain is great or the loss is too large, don't do it."
"Even if the gain... is great?"
"You don't seem like you quite believe it,"
"Er, well... not really."
"In life, it's better to assume that bad things will happen to you rather than good things. You can't look at someone else's success and 87/216 assume that it will happen to you. There are a lot of people in the world, so it makes sense that one or two of them are going to be fortunate. But there's only one of you. Assuming that good fortune will come to you is no different than pointing a finger at a random person and predicting the same for them. But do you think that prediction would come true?"
"So keeping all that in mind, if we return to the documents you were tricked into buying..."
"Ha-ha. Am I interrupting anything?"
"Er, not at all... Is something the matter?"
"Only that the next checkpoint will be the last for the day. I thought you might have something you need to buy, that's all."
"Ah, I see."
"'Twill last,"
"Apparently it will last,"
"Aye, and 'tis well if so. Still-"
"Seems a lie has become truth. He's playing the apprentice quite well!"
"I've hired boys many times before, but they rarely stay even a year. And when it comes to working without being yelled at or whipped, why - this lad's a miracle!"
"Doubtless,"
"So I've some odd jobs to take care of at the next checkpoint."
"Ah, yes - please let me help."
"Ha-ha-ha! Careful, you'll be scolded by your teacher!"
"Eh?"
"He doesn't want to be either a merchant or a boatman, this lad. Isn't that right?"
"... Yes. Er, I-I want to study Church law."
"Well now, isn't that a shame."
"So you see how it is,"
"I reckon I'll give up, then, if nobody else is going to get him all to themselves. Suppose it's always the gods that profit in the end, eh?"
"Um...?"
"He's just saying that if you keep studying like this, you'll wind up a scholar eventually."
"Ah..."
"You seem regretful,"
"Huh?"
"Oh yes, I suppose I did feel a bit disappointed."
"Still, you'll have other chances."
"So you find just helping me become a merchant of note unsatisfying?"
"You're not full-fledged until you have an apprentice."
"It's a bit early for that, though."
"Is it?"
"It is. Maybe ten years from now. Or fifteen even."
"Ten years from now, you say - mm, by then even you may be a bit more manly."
"... What are you talking about?"
"Oh, shall I explain?"
"Heh. Smart of you."
"Your praise flatters me, milady."
"You surely are a stingy male."
"What?"
"Look at the way your eyes light up at that paper. Is it so much more fun than keeping my company?"
"It's only a difference of three chests. Why is that so interesting?"
"Why...? I suppose because it's fun to think about. But this time if I'm mistaken, we won't get dragged into some kind of uprising. You needn't worry on that count."
"..."
"You're very skilled at bargaining sometimes, you know,"
"Well then, would you like to help?"
"... I suppose I would not mind."
"This word, here. Jean Company. Find anything that mentions it. You can read the letters, right?"
"Aye. Anything that mentions it, anything at all?"
"Yes."
"Still, you,"
"Hmm?"
"What's wrong?"
"... It is nothing."
"You could be a little more subtle, you know."
"I am just thinking about tiresome things, that is all."
"What kinds of things?"
"Truly tiresome things... I was wondering what sort of town awaits us once we have made our way down the river."
"tiresome,"
"I've only passed through it by boat two or three times, so I haven't gotten a proper look at it, if I'm honest."
"That is enough. What sort of town is it?"
"The river meets the sea in a wide delta, and where townspeople do not live, it is lively indeed, with taverns and trading companies' loading docks and money changers' counters. Homes are located on the northern and southern edges of the delta. Collectively it's known as Kerube, but the upper, middle, and lower sections do not get along well at all."
"Oh ho."
"I visited it from a large trading ship that connects distant nations. It had stopped in Kerube to take on supplies midway through the 94/216 voyage. Since it was a large ship, it couldn't navigate the shallow delta, so we boarded a smaller boat to make the trip."
"And then what did you see once you went up the delta?"
"... Right. Going up the delta, the first thing that greets us is the wind - and tide - bleached wreckage of a ship that's run aground. The hull is broken cleanly in two, and we pass through it like it's a gate. Once on the other side, we're surrounded by energy and noise, but not like in a town market. A town market sells goods one at a time, but here goods are bought and sold in amounts that would make your head spin - it's a market for merchants. The goods piled high there will be taken to lands near and far. Let's see... ah, yes. There are many shops dedicated to providing a brief moment of pleasure in the long and difficult voyages. Inside them, well... it would probably make your brow wrinkle to hear of it,"
"From within the rows of two-story buildings come the constant sounds of laughter and lute music all day long."
"Where was the ship going?"
"The ship?"
"The one you were riding on."
"Ah, that ship was bound far south along the coast, arriving at a port town called Yordos, a place known for its skilled artisans. The ship was 95/216 carrying mostly amber from the north, and the town was famous for its amber craft. It's even farther south than Pazzio, where you and I wound up running around underground, or even Pasloe, where we met. The sea is very warm there and dark."
"Mm. Though I do not know this 'amber' of which you speak."
"Huh? You don't?"
"It's tree sap that's hardened underground, and it looks just like a jewel. It's rather like... ah, yes. It looks a bit like your eyes actually."
"You did that on purpose,"
"Well, in any case, they're like beautiful jewels."
"Hmph! Not bad, for you. So after you got off that ship, where did you go next?"
"Next? Next was..."
"You can tell me that, or you can tell me where that vixen's destination is."
"Eve's destination, eh? If she's going to sell the fur to fur craftsmen, it'll be still farther south than Yordos. Probably a town named Urva."
"How much do you think she'll make?"
"Hmm... Perhaps triple... though that might be tough. If she were to turn that much profit, she'd never speak to a traveling merchant like me again, I'd wager."
"Ha-ha. But that's no joke - if she turns a profit of one or two thousand gold pieces, she'll be launched into the ranks of high-level merchants. Once you've got that kind of money, the done thing is to hire help, open a shop, buy a ship, and get involved in long-distance trading. Buy gold from desert nations and spices from scorching lands. Then bring back silk or glasswares, volumes of ancient writing that detail the history of bygone empires, exotic foods and animals, mountains of sea jewels like pearls or coral. A ship full of such things returning safely to port could bring a profit ten or twenty times what I'll make in my life. Then you can open branch offices for your trading company and most likely get into banking transactions. Loaning huge sums to local nobility in exchange for various special privileges allows you to seize control of the local economy. Then you finally become the official merchant for the southern emperor. You handle the ordering of the king's coronation crown, which could be worth two or three hundred thousand lumione. Once you're a merchant of that magnitude, you can send any sort of good anywhere to any nation from your seat, and you're received like a king anywhere you go. Your throne of gold coins is complete."
"'Tis like a path of gold leading to a nation of gold,"
"Still, it does not seem that it would be so very frustrating to let the entrance to that path pass you by."
"Do you not wish to walk that path?"
"I will have to pass on your tales. 'Twould be better if such tales were fewer."
"Rather than talk of the path of gold, I would sooner hear of what's beyond this amber village."
"In the beginning was the word,"
"So, what say you? Not an especially exciting journey, is it?"
"... Right you are. Still-"
"Still?"
"As it's such an ordinary journey, we can travel at a leisurely pace, hand in hand, without an excess of suspense."
"This is indeed from the Jean Company. It's a memo of their exports from last summer."
"Hn."
"And yes, it looks like they exported sixteen chests. So this... no... is it...?"
"Well, hurry and look for more papers,"
"Let's puzzle this out together."
"Is this all of them?"
"It doesn't seem as though there was anything decisive here."
"Not really. But even if the Jean Company's name isn't on them, there may be some related documents in here."
"Oh ho. Well, shall we?"
"Still, this may be proof that they really are illegally minting currency,"
"..."
"Are you truly not going to chase after that vixen?"
"... If you've any thoughts, you should share them,"
"Aye, so long as they have something to do with huge profits for you."
"... And you just said you didn't want that. And also-"
"Hmm?"
"You don't mind using your head, do you? It's a way to kill time,"
"Wh-what is it?"
"... Wh-why are you so angry?"
"Angry? Angry, did you say?"
"You... you would hardly understand why I would say this, anyway."
"You'd do well to mind your words."
"You truly do not understand?"
"'Tis all right if you don't."
"But I won't speak to you until you do."
"Wha-?"
"What's this?"
"Right - ahoy! Master!"
"What is it?"
"Ah, my apologies. It looks like we're going to be walking a bit."
"Walking?"
"A big ship's run aground, it seems. Now the whole river's jammed. Everybody was so greedy about getting their furs through, they didn't notice until it was too late, and it just started piling up. Apparently there's a sunken ship on the river's floor now, and they can't find the 110/216 sunken ship's boatman anywhere, so there may have been some kind of disturbance."
"That's..."
"So, what'll it be?"
"Fortunately, there's no word of mercenaries in the area, so things should be restored soon. But the other boats loaded with cargo are at a standstill. Aside from the ones who are desperate enough to jump into the water and swim ashore, they're not going anywhere. If I can unload some of the goods from this boat, I'll have some excess carrying space, which I want to use to carry people and cargo from the grounded boats to the shore. So - I'm sorry, but I'll need you to walk."
"I am a merchant, so if you'll lower your fee, I'll walk as much as I need to."
"Still, I can't very well force a maiden to walk in this cold without any preparation. I hear there are some rather devout fellows stuck on that river. If a girl you could mistake for a goddess were riding along with me, I'm sure it'd pick up their spirits."
"So,"
"in that case, first I'll need to unload the cargo."
"I'll help."
"Hey now, that makes it sound like I was trying to get you to help me."
"I said 'unload,' but it's really just the wheat and beans. The chests can stay where they are."
"Shall we get started, then?"
"Aye, lets!"
"By the by, I couldn't help overhearing your fun little chat earlier."
"Wha-?"
"Ah, don't worry! I didn't hear anything you'd be worried about,"
"It was just about the eni."
"The eni?"
"Aye. It just so happens that's what I'm carrying right now."
"I've a bit of interest in the matter myself. For two years now, that same copper coin has been moved on a fixed day, in a fixed amount - fifty-seven chests, downriver, to the Jean Company, but I'd never given much thought to how many chests it was in total. It was fifty-seven chests, divided up into a certain amount, then carried downriver."
"Those fifty-seven chests become sixty when they leave the Jean Company, which means either somebody is secretly carrying more, or the Jean Company is scheming at something."
"I appreciate the Jean Company always giving me this cargo, and I trust my fellow boatmen doing the same job. But it's these times. Surely God would forgive us being forced to take on a bad partner, would he not?"
"Of course, it's too soon to take that paper and go to the Jean Company, but one of those chests is a fair transport fee. If this turns out to be the Jean Company's weak point, we'd be in a bind."
"I've no intention of trying to expose the truth of the situation. I'm quite satisfied if I can safely build this house of cards."
"Then I'm sure I can let the ravings of a traveling merchant slide - even if do have a certain partner,"
"Right, then, do mind my companion - try to keep her from being too awe-inspiring, eh?"
"Ha-ha-ha. Can't have her getting any more worshipers, after all. Worry not, it's not too far on foot. We'll surely meet up by nightfall."
New Convo:

"There's no gain in hurrying so,"
"Yes, sir,"
"Um, Master-?"
"What is it?"
"About the eni..."
"Ah. You're wondering if there's any money to be made?"
"I doubt it."
"I... see."
"Though I wouldn't have guessed you'd be having trouble with money."
"What do you mean?"
"Hmm? Just what I said. Even among wandering scholars, the really clever ones have more money than they can carry and drink wine every day."
"Uh, er... I guess there are some like that, yes."
"Have you ever wondered how they get their money?"
"... Surely they steal it from others, I should think."
"I expect they're earning money much the same way you do."
"Huh?"
"Mm. And the only difference between you and fellows like that is effort."
"... Effort?"
"Yes. On your journey, did you sleep nights under borrowed roofs or beg your meals one at a time?"
"Yes."
"So it looks like you think you put forth some effort yourself,"
"What you put effort into was asking with all your heart if you could please take shelter from the wind or rain or if you could have some hot porridge to warm your cold body."
"But that lot, they're different. They're always focused on getting the most, the biggest return. The stories I've heard are incredible. They put merchants to shame."
"What... what do they do?"
"For example, say you knock on the door of a house somewhere, and you get a single smoked herring."
"And say it's desperately meager, and when you remove the skin, there's hardly any meat at all, just the stink of smoke and not much else. So what do you do next?"
"Um..."
"I would... eat half, then save the other half."
"And eat it on the next day."
"Yes."
"So once you had a herring, you wouldn't then go try to get some soup?"
"... Are you saying I should go around to lots of houses?"
"So there's a good reason you don't do that?"
"The reason I succeeded once... was because I was lucky."
"That's true. The world isn't overflowing with good, kind people, after all."
"..."
"In business, the more money you have, the more smoothly things go. It's because you have more tools. But you go into battle unarmed every time. So you come out of it wounded."
"That's right. You take the herring, and with it seek your next donation."
"Wha-?"
"You take the herring. It's better if you have a friend, and younger than you. You take him along and knock on a door. 'Excuse me, sir,' you say. 'You live devoutly by the teachings of God. Look, sir - I have a single herring. But I cannot possibly eat it. Please look, sir - look at my companion. Today is his birthday. If you could spare us some kindness, and give me alms enough to make this herring into a pie for him to eat. Just enough for that, sir - please.'"
"Listen to this speech. Who could refuse? The key is asking for just enough money for herring pie. Nobody is going to light their stove for you, but if it's money, they'll certainly spare some."
"Ah, er, so you mean any amount-"
"Yes. You take one herring from house to house, and some of those people are going to tell you that one herring isn't possibly enough, so you'll get more. Then once you've made the rounds through town, whoosh."
"I won't go so far as to say, 'Hunger knows no law,' but depending on how you think about it, there's no harm in giving alms to a poor wandering scholar, and giving even a small amount of money makes the giver feel good about themselves, so nobody loses. If you have extra money or food, you can even give some to your accomplice. So what do you think? Did you learn anything?"
"Ignorance is a sin."
"I've heard the saying 'Know thyself.'"
"Well, that's true, but the important thing is-"
"The important thing is to think of something nobody else is thinking of. 'Ignorance is a sin' is not about knowledge - it's about wisdom."
"Thank you very much, master."
"Hey, I can see it up ahead!"
"Hmm?... Oh, indeed. Looks like it's turned into quite a mess."
"It seems kind of like a festival,"
"Where were you born?"
"Huh?"
"If you don't want to answer, that's fine, too."
"U-um, it's a place called Pinu,"
"Sorry, I don't know it. Where is it? The east?"
"No, the north. Actually, it's not so very far from here..."
"Oh?"
"Are you familiar with the Roef River that flows into the Roam?"
"It's toward the headwaters there - up in the mountains. Winters are cold, I suppose. But when the snow falls, it's very pretty."
"If you're moving slowly, it's two weeks from here. If things really don't work out, I was thinking I might go back home,"
"So did you immigrate to Pinu, then?"
"Immigrate?"
"What I mean is, did you migrate there from the south?"
"N-no, but there's a story that the village's original location sank into the bottom of a lake created in a landslide."
"Oh no, I just mean that not many people from the northlands study Church law."
"My master - er, I mean, Professor Rient - used to say such things, as well. 'If only more people from the pagan lands would open their eyes to the Church's teachings' he would say."
"No doubt. Did any missionaries come to your town?"
"reform."
"No missionaries came to Pinu,"
"They came to a village two mountains away - a place smaller than Pinu, with many hunters skilled in trapping owl and fox. One day men came there from out of the south and built a church."
"But,"
"each village had its own god; those who rebelled against the Church were-"
"I guess you'd have to say I'm an enemy of the Church now. Can you explain what happened?"
"Truly?"
"Yes, in God's name I swear."
"... The headmen of all the villages in our region hadn't assembled in 220 years, I heard,"
"They met for many days, discussing whether to bow to the Church or to fight back. As I remember it, the mood wasn't one of agreeing to hold a discussion with the Church, I don't think. The news that reached us across the mountains every day was only about who had been executed. But eventually winter came, and the leader of the Church fell ill, and we were saved when he left the mountain, muttering that he didn't want to die in a pagan land like this. Of course, if it had come to a fight, we knew the mountains and there were more of us, so we would have won."
"But after the Church leader became ill and had to simply withdraw, I began thinking."
"And no one opposed your decision?"
"The headman... and the elder woman... supported me."
"I see. They must have believed that you could do it."
"They secretly lent me some money, too... so I have to find a way to get back in school."
"I can't really help you out with your money problems right now, but..."
"Oh! N-no, that's not-"
"But about that copper coin. If you can find enough of an answer to convince Ragusa, then there might be a reward in it for you."
"Of course, the most helpful effect it will have is taking away the nervousness of the journey,"
"Still, just a moment ago you said it looked like a festival - did you mean it looked like Pinu's festivals? Are they like that?"
"This is more fun than that!"
"Will you be my apprentice?"
"I suppose we'd best help them out, then. Pulling on that rope will warm us against the chill."
"Yes, sir!"
"Are you all right?"
"Ah, yes... I'm really sorry."
"Don't be. Look at all these merchants. They wish they'd done what you did."
"How do you plan to compensate us for this loss?"
"So... what will happen next?"
"The river has many owners along its way, and each is responsible for what happens on his section. Most likely the landlord of this section will dispatch horses and men first thing in the morning - with horses pulling, I'm sure they'll be able to haul the wreck out."
"I see..."
"Ho, friend! Sorry to make you walk,"
"Not at all - I don't mind walking along the river."
"Ha-ha-ha! I'll take you at your word, then,"
"This really is the worst luck. I guess they'll be able to do something about it by tomorrow morning."
"Do you think the ship sinking has anything to do with the fur trade?"
"I reckon so. Still, this is madness. Must be some fool who holds money dearer than their life. They could be strapped to the breaking wheel for this, without so much as a byyour-leave. Terrifying."
"So what of you lot, then?"
"What do you mean?"
"If you keep walking down the road, there's an inn attached to a checkpoint. Of course, it's no place for a lady to stay the night,"
"Right now, the master of that wreck of a ship along with the cargo owner are headed upriver to negotiate with some peddlers. I daresay that food and drink will arrive around sundown, but if you wait for that, you'll be camping, make no mistake."
"We never expect to have a roof over our heads while traveling. Quite the contrary - we'll be thankful that it's solid ground rather than a rocking boat,"
"I'm just glad it's only merchants on the boats. If we'd been carrying mercenaries, this would've gone very badly."
"Still, some of them seem quite angry."
"I'll take their shouting! Mercenaries will draw their swords first and ask questions later."
"Still, whoever sank that ship had best watch their step. I hope Count Bulgar catches them."
"Didn't you have some urgent cargo, as well?"
"Aye. The plan was to take delivery of the cargo in Lenos, but the merchant was late - so I'm already behind schedule. None of this is my fault, but when I think of what'll happen once I make it to Kerube, it's downright depressing."
"I've carried cargo like that before. It's nerve-racking,"
"And worse, it's cargo with a strange history! Did you figure anything out about that?"
"Unfortunately not."
"Well, nobody's noticed so far. I guess it's not a question so easily answered."
"By the way-"
"Yes?"
"Did something happen with your lovely companion?"
"Wh-"
"Why would you ask?"
"Why, I just wondered why she hadn't come back to you now that things have calmed down a bit - guess I was right,"
"Come now."
"you can't tell me you didn't notice after how close you were before. She didn't seem to want to leave your side for a moment! Am I right?"
"Ha-ha-ha!"
"Don't grow up like this fellow, you hear?"
"So, come now - out with it."
"... Huh?"
"What did you quarrel over? When the wine and food arrives from upstream, things will turn very festive indeed, you know. And this lot is going to have their share of anger to vent once they get some liquor in their bellies. They'll be a pack of wolves."
"Come, have some trust in me! Listen well, now-"
"I've got some confidence when it comes to such troublesome matters. Know why?"
"I've been taking boats up and down the river for past twenty years. When it comes to water under the bridge, you just leave it to me!"
"In that case... may I?"
"Count on me, friend."
"Does anyone have any old rags or things they don't need?"
"Don't grow up like this fellow, you hear?"
"You've figured it out, too, haven't you?"
"The river does indeed flow. But - why does it flow?"
"All this said, this doesn't tell me what the right answer is,"
"Whew. Talking after a long silence - it makes one thirsty."
"So, that actress... what were you talking ab-"
"Ugh, 'tis a cold night,"
"I don't know."
"Those traveling performers are excellent. That's a lovely dance."
"Wha-?"
"Hmm?"
"I-I may have caught cold. My nose is rather itchy."
"With strong liquor, the cold won't be so bad for a while."
"You should just take your wolf form and pull that sunken ship right out-"
"Honestly..."
"One can flatter a pig right up a tree, but flattering a male just makes him lose himself. Didn't I say as much?"
"If our positions were reversed, you would surely have been just as angry. Am I wrong?"
"Hmph."
"Will you now show me how sincere you are?"
"Sincerity?"
"mysterious";
"The river does indeed flow. But - why does it flow?"
"Sincerity enough to balance this out...?"
"I haven't got it on hand!"
"Surely not-"
"Ah-ha-ha-ha! The mountains of Roef?"
"Ho, it's a lovely place. I bring fine lumber out of it every year! Wood that came down this very river went to a kingdom in the far south, to produce a... urp... grand table for the palace. What say you to that, my young traveling merchant?"
"Well, in that case, you should write this on the side of the lumber: 'Your damn taxes are too high!'"
"Ah, yes! Right you are, m'boy."
"So then, what of Roef?"
"Roef? I've taken fine lumber from the place..."
"What a lightweight."
"So, will you talk to me now?"
"Ha-ha-ha! I reckon we promised, so there's nothing to be done about it now. We'll let Zonal settle this one up."
"Truly, though, to think you'd be this strong from dealing with a girl like that-"
"Aye, aye! Still, we must... we must keep our promises!"
"Aye, 'tis sho..."
"So you wanted to know of Roef?"
"Ah... yes, either that or a place called Yoitsu..."
"I've not heard of this Yoitsu. But Roef's hardly worth asking about - you just head back up this river. The Roef River joins up with it, and you just follow that all the way in."
"Can you not tell me something more... interesting?"
"Interesting, eh?"
"Ah, I have it,"
"Hey you. Wake up! You said you took a strange job recently, didn't you?"
"Mnngh... uuh... can't hold any more..."
"Idiot! Hey! You brought it out of Lesko on the Roef headwaters, didn't you?"
"Lesko? Ah, yes, 'tis a good town. Time after time, I brought copper out of the mountains there... It flowed out like water. Oh, and the liquor there's first-rate. How can I put it...? They've got dozens of machines there that bring the strongest liquor out of the thinnest wine. Oh, my copper-skinned bride! The blessings of fire and water be upon your shining skin!"
"Worthless!"
"'Copper-skinned bride,' he said... Did he mean a still?"
"Mm? Oh, aye! You're quite knowledgeable. I've carried them as cargo a few times. The liquor you're drinking was probably distilled in a Lesko still."
"Mm, this is no good. He won't awaken 'til morning."
"You said... something about a strange j-job?"
"Yes, a strange job... hmm? Ha-ha-ha! She has a catlike quickness about her - it quite suits her, don't you think?"
"So, yes, about that strange job."
"Which is more important, me or profit?"
"He'd been carrying money orders for the same company over and over. That's the other reason I was interested in what you were talking about - I was afraid that old Zonal had gotten himself mixed up in some kind of strange dealings. And that company is the supplier for those copper coins. I don't have courage enough for such things."
"But... still, wouldn't that be... the sort of letter you'd leave to the butcher?"
"Well, when he delivered a money order to the Jean Company in Kerube that he'd picked up in Lesko, he was apparently given a certificate of refusal."
"A certificate of refusal?"
"Strange, isn't it? He was given money orders time and again, only to have them rejected every time. Someone is definitely up to something."
"... There... there may be some kind of circumstance..."
"Circumstance?"
"Er... It's a money order; in other words, they're transporting money. And money's value is always changing. If the money's value changed while the money order was in transit... so they might not want to honor the order, or..."
"So there's no need to... worry..."
"Hmph. The world is filled with vexing things."
"While it may be that ignorance is a sin... it's impossible to know everything."
"True enough. Hah. I watched the boy's clumsiness with a smile, but now I see I'm not so different myself. Unlike us, he was deceived by a cheap stack of paper, but in the right place, he'd be wiser than either of us, would he not?"
"Church... law, was it?"
"Eh? Oh, yes... so he said."
"And what a vexing thing to study. If he'd work with me, he wouldn't have to study that. Plus he'd get three... no, two meals a day."
"He seems to have a goal,"
"Come now... did you try to steal a march on me, tempting him away while you were walking?"
"I did no such thing. I did confirm the strength of his will, though."
"Mmph."
"All we can do is... try... try to leave him with a small debt of gratitude, I expect,"
"Bwa-ha-ha! I reckon so. What shall I do? If the boy solves the copper coin puzzle, his ticket will be worth something."
"That's what he intended."
"How about it, won't you toss out a clue?"
"Unfortunately I can't. And even if I could... he'll owe me, too, so that will settle everything."
"True enough. Three chests of copper is a big difference. The only way to move a load that heavy is over water. And if it goes that way, there's no way I won't hear of it. Either that, or what's written on that paper is just wrong."
"That's true... I suppose. There's a story of one letter's mistake turning eel to gold coin and causing a huge uproar."
"Hmph. Might well be that way. Oh, about that, there was one interesting thing. They were searching for it for years, I heard."
"Huh...?"
New Convo:

"... Mmph."
"Ah, so it was this..."
"You're heavy,"
"What's the matter?"
"You're heavy."
"Nay, my body is quite light. Something else must be weighing upon you."
"Shall I say then that your feelings are heavy?"
"That makes it seem like I am some sort of uninvited guest."
"Honestly... So, I assume you weren't found out?"
"About whose bedroom I share, you mean?"
"bed."
"No, I was not found out. Everyone was too roused to notice. Heh - you should have come yourself."
"I can imagine it, more or less... but I'd rather not get burned."
"I heard much of the northlands from the traveling girl. Apparently they just finished working in Nyohhira. To hear her tell it, it hasn't changed much from the old days."
"Always so stubborn,"
"We have time to decide what to do, though. We're chasing Eve first, after all."
"Would you get off me? I'm thirsty."
"Being on top does suit me, I must say."
"And I'm under you - literally, this time."
"I daresay, I'd like some water, myself... hmm? Where did my robe go?"
"Eyahri,"
"What's that about?"
"'Tis an old greeting. Apparently it's still in use around the vast mountains of Roef,"
"Ah, the boy's awake,"
"What's he doing?"
"Hmph. Looks to be writing something,"
"Anyway, water. My throat is burning."
"Mm."
"Guh..."
"Come, give it here,"
"So, did you hear any interesting talk?"
"Kuh... whew... Interesting talk, you say?"
"You said you heard about Nyohhira, didn't you?"
"Mm. Nobody knew the name of Yoitsu, but many had heard of the Moon-Hunting Bear."
"Does that make you jealous, I suppose?"
"Just who do you think I am?"
"Ah, you're right,"
"I'm a late bloomer, after all. I'm only just getting started."
"I may have retreated from being worshiped, but 'twould be lovely indeed to have a thick book of tales recorded about me, of course."
"Ha-ha. Shall I write it, then?"
"Hmph. Though if you were to do it, the travels with you would be the larger part."
"Well, yes."
"I can't have that now, can I?"
"Why not?"
"It might well end up being less of a book and more a litany of humiliations."
"You're perfectly happy to lie - you'd embellish things that did and didn't happen, no doubt. What sort of book would you create?"
"Are you trying to say I'd be as thick as the book I'd write?"
"Anyway, all I heard tell of was Nyohhira. They don't often go into the mountains of Roef, they said. Apparently 'tis not so nice a place."
"Huh?"
"There are more than twenty hot springs. The earth has cracks that vent steam, and it seems like the end of the world - just like it did in my time. The one annoying bit was that the spot that I'd found and only I knew about seems to have been discovered - even though it was a hot spring hidden in a canyon so narrow I had to take this form just to fit."
"Heh. This won't do. At this rate, I won't be able to hide anything from you,"
"There have always been fools who dig into the mountains. Time passes and men grow more numerous. I was prepared for that much."
"Still, know this-"
"This is my problem to worry over. When I see you make that face, I can't worry about it properly."
"Why, the nerve!"
"When the time comes, I may need to borrow your chest to cry upon. That's one promise I'll need from you."
"But then what of you? Did you hear any interesting talk?"
"... Let's see. I seem to remember Ragusa saying something..."
"I believe... it was something funny... but not really funny... Something like that."
"About the boy?"
"Oh yes! Or... was it?"
"Well, that's all you and that boatman would have to talk about, is it not? And you're competing over him, too."
"I'm not competing over anything. But Ragusa really seems to want the boy."
"And what of you?"
"Me? Well, I..."
"Back in Pasloe, I waited a long time for a suitable-looking traveler to come, but that good meeting did not come for some time. When it comes to people, well, you should trust my eye."
"And he's gotten attached to me, but worry not. He's not likely to become your enemy."
"Well, everything seems to be in order now. When I heard that ships were piling up, I expected more of a scene."
"... You were excited, then?"
"I did wish for a leisurely journey, but travels with you are strangely complicated - when you've time to think of foolish plans."
"It's both good and bad being too clever."
"Too clever?"
"Ah-"
"Don't tell me you asked around about far-off places just because you were interested, and now you've gotten some strange misapprehension in your head,"
"'Tis no wonder you made such a strange face back then. Well, you can keep your worries to yourself,"
"I could say the same thing to you. The reason you're trying to force Col off on me as my apprentice is exactly the same."
"You're the weak one, and I've got to protect you,"
"Honestly... so what was it you wanted to say?"
"When we've time to think of foolish things, it seems neither of us can think of anything good."
"Unaware of our own faults."
"One cannot help thinking such things, but it's still quite difficult."
"Not thinking about anything is another problem, I think... it is difficult."
"Come, let's stop talking of this,"
"Well, we've gone to the trouble of waking up at this hour,"
"It's cold, so let's go talk to the lad and have some wine."
"More drinking?"
"Could these people not sleep in a more orderly fashion? They are in the way; 'tis frustrating."
"Col, m'boy,"
"vixen"
"bird"
"old man,"
"Hmm?"
"-Whoops,"
"Wh-what is wrong?"
"That's my line!"
"Mm. We woke up at this strange hour and thought you might drink with us."
"'Tis a jest. Are you hungry?"
"Er... a, a little."
"Mm. Come, you-"
"We have plenty of provisions, do we not?"
"Hmm? Oh, well, we have some, yes."
"But?"
"But if we eat it, we'll have that much less."
"Well, that decides it, then. Now, 'twould be nicer to be near the fire..."
"Don't you remember?"
"We were both drunk, after all. I am sorry, but could you fetch it for us?"
"Understood,"
"You-"
"Mm?"
"Never mind."
"All right, then."
"By the way-"
"Mm?"
"Col's hometown, apparently it's called Pinu. Have you heard of it?"
"What did you just say?"
"Just kidding,"
"... Hey."
"Am I supposed to know everything now?"
"I suppose I shall be more temperate next time."
"... I would certainly appreciate that,"
"Did something happen?"
"Hmm? No, not especially. We were just talking about your hometown."
"I see..."
"Pinu, was it? Does your village have any legends?"
"Legends?"
"Aye. Surely you have one or two."
"Er, well..."
"When you talked to me,"
"you said it was a problem when the Church came in, didn't you? Which means that region, Pinu included, had other gods."
"Ah, yes. Pinu is the name of a great frog god. The elder claims to have seen it with his own eyes."
"Oh ho,"
"The place the village is in now isn't where it used to be - that land vanished long ago in a great landslide and wound up at the bottom of a lake that was created in a flood, it's said. Right after that landslide, the elder - who was still a child then and helping to hunt fox in the mountains - apparently saw it. The great frog was blocking the floodwaters from flowing down the valley that led directly to the village."
"So Lord Pinu blocked the floodwaters, and as he held them back, the elders came down the mountain and ran to the village to warn everyone, who barely escaped with their lives."
"Hmm. So your god was a mere frog, then. What of, say, wolves?"
"Oh yes, there are many."
"But there are more of those in Rupi. I told Master Lawrence of that place - it's where the skilled fox and owl hunters are."
"Ah, the village that the Church marched into, yes?"
"There is a legend that says that the ancestor of Rupi's people was a wolf."
"This is just talk I heard later, but apparently the Church men who came to Rupi originally had that wolf-god as their goal."
"The... god?"
"Yes. But there are no gods in Rupi. According to the stories, they died."
"Long ago, the story has it that the god of Rupi returned to the village after being terribly injured, then died there. As thanks, it left its right foreleg and its offspring there. Its offspring were accepted into the village, and it's said that the right foreleg protected the whole area from plagues and disasters. And the Church men were looking for that foreleg or some such."
"That is what they say, but our village fell into a lake after a landslide, so it's a bit doubtful whether the god of Pinu really left its leg there,"
"So, do you doubt the legends?"
"... If you mean do I not fully believe, then yes, I doubt them. But in school, I learned a lot about reconciling the existence of gods. So it's simple. The foreleg of Rupi's god would decades ago have been..."
"Treasure maps appear only once the treasure has already been stolen."
"I won't be fooled again,"
"Still, that can't be, can it? Buying and selling the foreleg of a god, I mean."
"-"
"Yes. The world is full of frauds and fakes."
"where there's smoke, there's fire,"
"Um, I really don't believe any of this, you know."
"I mean, of course I think I'd like to know for sure if it is true, but..."
"Still, if the Church really is chasing after that bone, what could they be thinking, I wonder?"
"What are they... thinking?"
"Right. I mean, if they're trying to find that bone because it's genuine, that would confirm the existence of the pagan gods. Surely they won't do that."
"That's true..."
"Now that you mention it, that is strange."
"Ah, er, maybe-"
"Wh-what was that...?"
"The boats!"
"Ahoy! Somebody-!"
"Protect the ship!"
"Do you really not understand?"
"Huh?"
"Do you understand?"
"I do understand, in fact,"
"Just as you live by traveling and selling, I lived on the people's faith."
"The reason I so hated being called a god was the way people kept me at a distance, gazing on me from afar. They feared, respected, and were grateful for my slightest move. I was treated with constant and terrible caution. So if you consider the opposite of that..."
"No!"
"Surely that bone, they won't-"
"That's right. Suppose they find a bone they know is real, then crush it under their foot? We can't simply devour the fools until we're bones ourselves. We'll have to content ourselves with being subjugated. There will be no miracles. And what will the people who see us think? They'll think this-"
"-They'll think, 'Oh, look at this thing we so used to fear - 'tis not such a great thing, after all.'"
"So, what think you?"
"I think - I think it's awful..."
"Fool,"
"I'm not asking you of the morality of this. You're just like the Ch-"
"That's payback,"
"... What I mean is, what do you think of the story that they're after the bone? Do you think it is true?"
"Half and half."
"I mean, my immediate guess is half and half. Stories like this are common as the way Col was deceived during his studies."
"Well, it's hardly half and half, then, is it?"
"Yes, but I know that beings like you exist. That eliminates the possibility of the most common idle gossip. So, half and half. That it's a rumor at all is because there's a trading firm involved. Whether it's really in Rupi, we don't know. That the Church came to Rupi is only true so long as Col isn't lying."
"What say you to this-?"
"Mm?"
"Let us continue our easy travels, and when we find Yoitsu, say our good-byes. What think you?"
"Don't ask me a thing like that. What did I say when I came to pick you up?"
"There is the salvation that it may all turn out to be a mere rumor. If it's captured your interest, I don't mind."
"And what if there is no such salvation?"
"If it's true, we won't come away unscathed."
"Because of my anger?"
"Such items are unbelievably highly priced as a rule. The Church often brings its authority to bear in such matters, as well."
"Despite your morals, it's a valuable item that affects the Church's credibility. If we get involved, we won't come away from it unhurt."
"To come out and just say it, I'm going digging for bones. I won't force you to come along."
"Unlike you, I'd prefer our book to be a long one."
"... In truth?"
"Stories are better when they have an ending, are they not?"
"Even if there's danger?"
"Of course, I'd prefer to avoid danger if possible."
"I'm Holo the Wisewolf!"
"..."
("I don't quite know what to make of that sight")
"fare thee well."
"What think you?"
"carefree travel"
"Mmchoo-"
"Mmph... 'Tis the first pleasant awakening in some time."
"So you're really going, eh?"
"I-I know we were delayed a night here, but it'll be an express trip the rest of the way! We'll make up the delay in no time!"
"No, Kerube was a bit too far out of our way to begin with. Having had a night to think it over, we've decided to head back."
"Urgh... right, then. It's a mark on my reputation as a boatman, but... I suppose there's nothing for it."
"I imagine that we can make it back within a day - and of course, my first voyage in quite some time was excellent."
"Ah, well. For every meeting, there is a parting. I'm a boatman that connects towns. No doubt I'll have a chance to carry the same travelers again,"
"Indeed. I am a traveling merchant, after all. I'm sure I'll come this way again,"
"Right then. Tote Col - mind you well the things I've taught you."
"Wha-? Oh! Y-yes sir!"
"Incidentally, Mr. Ragusa."
"Mm?"
"No stealing a march on me now,"
"Fine then. I promise. I'm a boatman - I won't tell a lie."
"Still-"
"You won't go quarreling with your companion over anything quite that foolish again, will you now?"
"I know, I know. I won't."
"Mark my words - you can't buy love with gold. Your merchant's common sense won't work there. Don't forget that!"
"I'll carve it on my heart,"
"Well, that's all right then."
"Well then, we'll be off,"
"Uh, wait-!"
"Thank you for everything!"
"Master!"
"Good luck to you,"
"So we'll head down along the river and get to whatever this port town is, and then what?"
"Mm, once we get to Kerube, we'll catch Eve."
"So we'll catch the vixen, and in exchange for her profits, we'll make her tell us what she knows."
"She conspired with the Church to smuggle goods, so if it's about towns along this river, she should have all the inside information."
"Hmph. So long as we get even with her, any reason will do."
"But still, 'tis sometimes nice to take my wolf form and run 'neath the sun's rays. My legs can easily overtake any ship, no matter how far a lead it might have."
"Then, once we've strong-armed whatever that company was called, we'll come back up the river to the town from yesterday. And after that?"
"The Jean Company, yes. And we're not going to strong-arm them. We don't have the resources for that. I just want to put out some feelers. And after that..."
"We'll decide when we get there."
"Always so stubborn,"
"Who's stubborn?"
"It looked like you wanted to bring Col along."
"I was only trying to bring him over so that when I leave, you wouldn't be too lonely. If you've no use for him, there's no need, is there?"
"You've gotten rather tough."
"I don't remember when it was, but once I met a boy and girl about his age on my travels,"
"Oh?"
"The pair were like baby chicks and didn't know right from left. Nothing is more dangerous than such ignorance. I cared for them for a while, traveling with them. It was rather fun, in truth. This makes me think of that."
"Also, I simply like the boy,"
"Is that enough for you?"
"Would you really turn jealous of a child like that?"
"I wish I could say, 'Right then, let's bring him along,' of course-"
"But I can't."
"I'll just bet."
"What's the last reason?"
"I like traveling with just us two."
"I guessed the reasons were something like those, yes. And also-"
"Also?"
"You said it when we first met him, did you not? That if he wouldn't seek his own salvation, you wouldn't venture to help him."
"Well, even if he'd asked to come along on our travels, I would have refused."
"Now if he'd said, 'If you turn me down, I'm prepared to die,' I might think about it."
"So you're saying you don't want anybody interfering with the two of us for less than that, then?"
"Fine, fine."
"I'm sorry, did you say something?"
"I did not."
"Well then, do you think we can safely stray from the road now?"
"What's wrong?"
"Is there something there?"
"You certainly do like children."
"And what if I were to answer that I do like children - what would you do then?"
"What would I do? I don't suppose I'd do any- ah..."
"I do like children, don't I? Do I not?"
"Urgh..."
"Hmm? What's that?"
"Ah, well, I am the one who came to travel with you, after all. I'll leave such decisions in your hands,"
"Well, if we wind up traveling together, you're not going to be able to groom yourself as you please,"
"Males always think themselves special,"
"..."
"Think of where he's from. I suppose we'll just have to see whether or not he finds my form terrifying."
"Well, we'll hear his reason and decide from there,"
"Um!"
"Did I forget something?"
"I-I have a favor to ask."
"What might that be? If it's traveling expenses, I can't help you,"
"sure"
"N-no, it's not that. I just-"
"You just?"
"You're going to go see the truth about the wolf of Rupi, aren't you? Please take me with you! Please!"
"You may not make any money,"
"And there may be danger. And the rumor might turn out to be a barefaced lie."
"I don't mind if it's a lie! I can put myself at ease. And I'm fine with danger. If it wasn't for you, I would have died alongside this river!"
"I can return the money I received, I think. And-"
"P-please! " "You can't go back to Mr. Ragusa's boat now."
"..."
"Are your tests quite finished?"
"Fine, fine!"
"However-"
"If you're going to travel with us, there is something you should know."
"Er... what... is it?"
"-nchoo!"
"You seem dissatisfied."
"That tickles. Are you quite finished?"
"I suppose this was fated somehow,"
"Ah-er, so you'll take me with you, then...?"
"We'd be in trouble if the Church found out about us. We can't very well let someone who knows go free,"
"But stealing copper coins from Ragusa's boat was going a bit too far."
"Uh, the - copper coins?"
"I didn't actually steal those."
"Oh?"
"Actually I figured out the reason why the copper coin chests don't add up."
"Wha-?"
"... And then what happened?"
"Er, yes, well, I planned to steal some at first. Once I understood the reason the amounts didn't add up, it seemed like it would be easy."
"That's why I volunteered for the night watch. I thought even if I told you I wanted to go with you, you might refuse, and... but Mr. Ragusa had been really nice to me, and I couldn't just steal from him, so... I told him everything. That I wanted to go with you and Holo and also that I wanted to trade the information about the copper coins for my boat fare."
"So where did you get those coins?"
"I got them from Mr. Ragusa. But not out of the chests - he gave them to me out of his own coin purse. For luck, he said. And also-"
"And also so that when you caught up to us, you could pretend you'd stolen them and couldn't go back,"
"That's right."
"So that is that. Shall we be off, then? People are coming,"
"I have one thing to ask you."
"What is it?"
"Just before you and I walked together yesterday, this wolf whispered something to you, didn't she? What did she say?"
"Er..."
"If you say, there's no telling what these fangs may do,"
"I'm sorry. I can't say,"
"Heh-heh-heh. Come now. Hurry and get on."
"What is the matter?"
"Not a thing."
"Oh, one more thing,"
"What was the reason the chests didn't add up?"
"Oh, that's-"
"That's something you should figure out for yourself,"
"... What, you've understood it, too?"
"And why not? But one thing is certain,"
"You'll take more enjoyment from puzzling over the coins than from talking to me, will you not?"
"Hasekura, how're your stocks doing?"
"Oh, pretty good. Sometimes I make even [AMOUNT REDACTED] yen a day."
"That much?"
"That much. When I make [AMOUNT REDACTED] in a day, though, it kinda makes me not want to do work."
"Really? So when you take a loss, it makes you feel like you have to work harder, right?"
"No, actually. When I lose money, I feel awful, and work's the last thing on my mind."
"I see. So you work when the market's closed, then?"
"Are you crazy? Work on a weekend?"