
"It may be gone, I hear."
"One can hardly lose what one does not already have."
"We humans can indeed lose again things we've lost already."
"Such reasoning's beyond the likes of me."
"Do you imagine things are over when you die? It's not so. When we die, we either live on in heaven or die yet again in hell. Losing something already lost is not so very difficult."
"'Tis dreadful indeed to be a human."
"It surely is."
"How does one lose such a thing?"
"It's dug up, carved out, with not a trace left behind - or so people say."
"Aye, 'tis dreadful to be human! Only a pup could dream up such a notion - I surely never could."
"Still, 'tis a bit pleasing to hear as much."
"... Pleasing?"
"Aye. The first time, I lost what I did utterly unbeknownst to me. It had nothing to do with me, and there was nothing I could do to stop it from happening."
"But this time-"
"-This time I will be there. 'Twill be my life after death."
"I thought there was nothing I could do, but I have another chance. Such happy things do not often happen. I can act or not as I see fit. Much better that than having the matter settled entirely behind one's back, don't you think?"
"You seem strangely bold,"
"'Tis because I've come upon a wonderful excuse. Regardless of the outcome, I'll have participated in whatever happens. There's a certain comfort in that. It might be even more important than whether things go well or not."
"I must live a good long while yet. I need the hearth of a good excuse to sleep through the cold nights. Something to hold while I sleep that suffices to gaze at when I wake."
"I can't stay with you forever. I can only do so much to aid you. But what I can do for you I will."
"Well, then, perhaps I will use breakfast as an excuse to see just how far you'll go for me, eh?"
"Just make sure you don't eat so much that this breakfast becomes your last."
"Aye. After all, you love me so much you can hardly bear it - If I ate enough to please you, my belly would surely burst."
"I have no particular desire to kill you."
"Mm."
"'Tis well. I'd hate to die by your generosity."
New Convo:

"When you're done reading, give it back."
"Still, to think such a great abbey might be swindled so!"
"Who do you suppose would buy a rusty sword?"
"Er... someone without any... money?"
"Yes. But who else?"
"Someone with too much money - 'tis it not so?"
"Indeed. Those with too much money would buy a rusty sword. Even if it's entirely lost its edge. Such a sword's value is determined in other ways."
"So you're saying that the abbey didn't care whether the bone was real or not?"
"What's more important than who was deceived by whom is whether or not the abbey was able to give the bone sufficient value. And it seems they were."
"It says they were approached by an overseas merchant company with an offer to buy... that's that company, right?"
"They wanted to sell the bone to the Jean Company for a fortune, then whether or not it was real, feign ignorance. But it didn't work."
"And none of that has anything to do with us,"
"Quite so. Our attention is elsewhere."
"'It seems such trades have been made all over in recent years. I suspect those at their center have a very different information network than we possess. It seems to be the north has become unstable. God's protection be upon us all. Piasky.'"
"That agrees with what we heard from old Huskins, does it not?"
"The Jean Company that approached the abbey to purchase the bone was originally a branch of the Debau Company, Mr. Huskins told me. He said that the situation in the north was going to change dramatically based on the interference of the company that owns mines in the region - and that's none other than the Debau Company, a group that has a web of influence quite separate from the Ruvik Alliance."
"So the real bone is already in the hands of the Debau Company?"
"That is a possibility. If it's already on the market, it's even likelier."
"Ah-"
"A single paper letter is easily destroyed in water or fire. You use parchment if you want to avoid that, but then disposing of it becomes difficult. Easily destroyed paper is used when writing something secret."
"So, what shall we do then, eh?"
"Mr. Piasky's letter reinforces what Mr. Huskins told us of the north. Two separate information sources have brought us a similar story. We can safely assume it to be mostly true."
"So this so-and-so company is really driving people from their homes in order to dig up the mountains?"
"Hence the possibility that they're frantically gathering up holy relics without much concern for their authenticity, Mr. Huskins said. Their goal is clear - if you're going to rely upon force of arms, there's no stronger ally than the Church. The Debau Company will certainly try to get the Church on its side. It will let them talk about their annexing the land containing the mines in much more favorable terms."
"A holy war, then. To take back God's land from pagan hands."
"This is probably because so many were put in a bind with the cancellation of the northern campaign. No one wants war where they live, but if it's a far-off land, it's a welcome event. Foodstuffs and supplies fly off the shelves, and the mercenaries that plague fields and villages are all occupied far away. If things go well, nobles that went off to war return rich with plunder, which may then be shared."
"And so much the better if the land attacked is a pagan one, eh?"
"Er-"
"Do we know where, um, the attack will happen?"
"We do not. However,"
"we can prepare. The larger the operation, the more impossible it becomes to hide. Even if we can't stop things entirely, we can turn the spearpoint away from the places we want to protect."
"What will we need?"
"First, an accurate map of the northlands. Having learned a placename, it'll do us no good if we don't know where that place actually is, and we won't know where war is spreading, either. And while it's not exactly a minor detail, we may find more news of the wolf bone in the process."
"That's why I had Mr. Huskins give me the name of someone who could give us news of the north and draw us a proper map. And since he knows the truth about the wolf among us, I expect the introduction will be a good one,"
"In any case, we'll return to Kerube. There we'll meet with a certain merchant."
"Not to that runt that caused you so much fuss surely?"
"You mean Kieman? No. A merchant who's one of Huskins's friends."
"We're relying on the power of sheep yet again...?"
"It's not a shepherd this time. That's got to be some sort of improvement."
"If not a shepherd, what then?"
"An art seller."
"So will we disembark on the north side? Or the south?"
"The south. The livelier side."
"Mmm. I suppose... I'll be able to look forward to a tasty dinner, then,"
"Joking aside, how many sheep might we have had?"
"Mm... 'twould have been no small trouble to bring them with us."
"I never would have thought you'd play the realist."
"I can manage that much, at least,"
"After all, our pack is already..."
"How about you sleep quietly, like Col?"
"I don't fear ships, but wine. If I could but sleep I could escape the fear, but to do that I fear I need to drink more."
"I fear the cost of food, so I've nothing to drink but my tears,"
"Ngh... whew. 'Tis been but a few days, but this feels strangely nostalgic,"
"Could be because the snowy scenery of Winfiel is so different from things here. But you're right."
"This is the first time we've returned to a town we've already visited."
"Mm? Oh, aye. Now that you mention it, 'tis so."
"Indeed, it does feel as though we've been traveling together for a terribly long time."
"Hmm?"
"And every time we enter a new town, something worth laughing about for fifty years seems to happen."
"..."
"So then, shall we add another happy memory to our travels?"
"We profited."
"An art seller? Oh, perhaps you mean the Hugues Company."
"Yes, I'd like to meet with Hafner Hugues."
"If you simply head out the front entrance of the trading house and down the street, it will be on your right. They've a signboard with a picture of a ram's horn hanging from the eaves, so they're hard to miss."
"Still, it's unusual that you would have business with the Hugues Company."
"I hope to meet with a silversmith named Fran Vonely."
"Do you know her?"
"She's famous. Or perhaps I should say notorious."
"It's her clientele."
"She's celebrated for having such high patrons for such a young silversmith, but those patrons are all newly wealthy, and most of them have dark shadows in their pasts. And she won't hear questions about where she apprenticed or who her master was. She's very mysterious."
"I think you'd be better off avoiding her."
"Ah, seems I've been thinking aloud again."
"Let me know when you've profit to divide."
"But of course,"
"Did things go well?"
"Seems they got a letter. 'We profited,' it said."
"I only pray this doesn't mean that more misfortune awaits us."
"You're hardly one to talk."
"So where are these art sellers to be found?"
"I'm not sure whether they're gutless or bold."
"Probably for the same reason you see so many eagles on the nobility's family crests,"
"Ho..."
"Perhaps no one's home."
"Don't touch the paintings."
"Excuse me! Is anyone here?"
"Yes, yes, how may I help you?"
"I'm here to see Mr. Hafner Hugues."
"Oh? Well, I'm Hafner. So... how might I be of assistance?"
"Actually, I was sent by Mr. Huskins from Brondel Abbey..."
"Ah... ah... ah..."
"Her name is Holo,"
"I don't suppose you have any apples like the one in that painting?"
"He's more pig than sheep, I'd say,"
"Mr. Hugues."
"We heard of this place from Mr. Huskins, you see."
"Now he... was a tough fellow."
"Tough. Sinewy, you know."
"He was a sturdy fellow, indeed,"
"Wh-what did you do... no, what did you want with him?"
"What did you do to him?"
"We listened to his tale of what his kind had done at the abbey. It was a grand tale, too. And then we gave him some assistance."
"... Why did he - why did he send you to me?"
"We are looking for someone who knows the northlands."
"Ah... yes. In that case..."
"That one, Huskins, he had some backbone. He knew the way of things."
"..."
"What I mean is, he made sure to properly repay his debt to us. But as to whether it'll truly be paid..."
"... That'll depend on your cooperation."
"That's..."
"Of course... if that's what he wants, then..."
"Mm."
"It's up to you now."
"So then, Mr. Hugues. We were hoping you would make an introduction for us."
"Ah... yes, indeed, this company deals in art, and many artists travel widely. So..."
"Yes, we heard the name of a certain silversmith from Mr. Huskins."
"Mr. Huskins gave us the name Fran Vonely."
"I am... aware of her."
"I hear she is a remarkable silversmith."
"She makes her living with painting, but her true trade is as a silversmith. I don't know how she's managed it, but she's close to many important figures, and to a one they're infatuated with her skill... especially those who've made their fortunes by the spear and shield, if you..."
"Could you introduce us to her?"
"Yoitsu."
"Huh?"
"Yoitsu. 'Tis an old name. Few still remember it. And those who remember where it is are still fewer."
"I seek my homelands. Yoitsu. So, what say you? Have you heard of it?"
"If you know, I want you to tell me. Just look at me."
"Ah... er, well..."
"P-please look up. If the old one's sent you... no, rather, if you'll go to such humbling lengths for me, then, come - I, too, was born as a sheep. And I will aid you. So please..."
New Convo:

"It'll warm you. Please, help yourself."
"Now then, you want to know about Fran Vonely, the silversmith, do you?"
"Yes."
"She's in town right now as a matter of fact."
"Doing painting or smithing, I suppose?"
"No. She often travels here or there saying she's making preparations for just that, but just when I was thinking I hadn't heard from her in some time, she comes wandering in, saying she's heard tell of a certain legend."
"A legend?"
"Something about a village known as Taussig. It's up next to a long, wide mountain range in the north. The mountains are tall, the forests deep, and she's come in pursuit of a legend regarding a lake in the area, she said."
"Mr. Hugues, do you know anything about this legend?"
"Certainly, I've heard tell of it. As I'm sure you're aware, we have our own information sources, and to a certain degree we can tell whether such things are real or not..."
"So you're saying there's a good chance it's a fake?"
"But she's a stubborn person. Once she's decided on a shape for a silver piece, she won't budge - although many people find such vehemence to have a certain charm to it..."
"So she won't have time to draw us a map?"
"Perhaps not. Though..."
"Though...?"
"It's true that she often journeys into the north in search of subjects for her silversmithing, and I imagine that she's become more familiar with the old names of places there than old Huskins or myself are, since she's the only one actually going there."
"So, yes. But I don't know if she'll simply draw you a map if asked to. I had to work very hard in order to establish a relationship with her, so..."
"What? 'Twill be simply done,"
"I understand entirely,"
"But would you be able to put in a good word for us?"
"She - she's a very difficult individual, you see..."
"The reason I'm so loathe to displease her is related to my trade. But it's not about money."
"The place in this painting was once called Dira long ago."
"This is my homeland."
"-!"
"But long ago it was a fertile, productive place. Without any of these rocks. That cliff... is a claw mark."
"Of the Moon-Hunting Bear?"
"Yes. It is something that my kind will never forget. These paintings were created with the help of individuals like Miss Vonely. It has been decades now. For the sake of my kind and those similar to me, I collect and deal in such pieces, pieces that show the homes we were forced to abandon or the disaster that made returning home impossible. It would be a lie to suggest that I have not profited in doing so, but that is a secondary concern."
"And even the landscape of this painting is now no more. I hear that veins of gold were discovered there... It's ironic, actually. The guide I hired in order to have this piece made found the gold. And even if that hadn't happened, wind and water would wear the land away until it's entirely different. The paintings in the other room and the paintings hanging in churches and manors, too, mostly show landscapes that have disappeared or are in the process of disappearing. And the paintings themselves will not last forever."
"If possible, I would like very much to help you. This place does not exist only for we sheep. My customers have included deer and hares, foxes and fowl as well."
"However, Fran Vonely's knowledge and skill are irreplaceable. She has a perfect memory, never forgetting anything she's seen even once, and a sense of purpose she holds more dear than her own life. She is utterly dedicated to capturing the landscape in her art, and I cannot afford to lose her cooperation. There is no time."
"There is no time"
"There's no time?"
"Yes. We must hurry. There are a multitude of places I hope Miss Vonely will paint, but her lifetime is limited. I think about it often - if only she could live as long as we."
"Like you, I'm meant to be a merchant,"
"I understand what you want to say. And in all honestly, we did once take up the brush... and those comrades of mine who went north and east and captured the old 41/184 landscapes in the south, landscapes that are now long gone... those comrades of mine were not immortal."
"They took up their brushes and traveled abroad, carefully observing the state of the world out of a deep sense of duty. And what they found were forests cleared, rivers dammed and changed, and mountains dug up and scarred. Eventually they could stand it no longer and traded their brushes for swords."
"But they were outnumbered. One was burned by the Church, another crushed by an army. One was so mortified by his own powerlessness that he... well. Few remain even as memories, having vanished like so much sea-foam. Humans, they... ah, apologies."
"Not at all,"
"Humans have amassed great power. Control of the world has been theirs for a long time now, and our age has passed. Those unwilling to admit that have one by one fallen in battle and now exist only as legends on parchment. And even those parchments are crumbling, mice nibbled and moth eaten. We are what remains: sheep, in the human sense of sheep. None of us, myself included, have the courage to hold a brush. The bravest of us were the first to fall... It was a terrible cruelty."
"It is indeed cruel,"
"So that is why you were so upset upon seeing me, was it?"
"Yes. Even so."
"Heh. But 'tis well. I would have been sadder to learn of the opposite."
"... I envy such strength. For my part, I've often wondered if I'm to live so long, why I couldn't have been born as a stone or tree instead."
"Heh. I cannot say I feel the same. Were I a stone or tree, I could hardly travel with these two."
"Indeed. Life in the world of humans can be rather enjoyable."
"Mm. They're an amusing lot."
"There are many fakes here, but... ah, here's a bar meant for holding down scrolls. Mm, looks like it's only gold plated, though. Ah yes, here! What do you make of this one, eh?"
"Well, that's about the size of it."
"I see, I see. I'm deeply grateful, yes. While I do hear stories from all over while I sit in my shop here, most of my visitors aren't walking the path of trade, so I collect little information that's useful in business."
"... Is this...?"
"Oh, so this is where I left that old thing."
"What in the world is this used for?"
"Oh, it's one of those - you use it to warm your hands."
"Your hands?"
"It's for merchants who want to show off their wealth a bit. You can heat it by the fireplace or have your apprentice warm it with his skin, then use it to warm your hands as you do your writing. Though anybody who dares use it outside when traveling in the winter will find their hands sticking to it."
"Still, thank you ever so much for the information,"
"Not at all. Thank you."
"By all means, when you're finished, feel free to linger. You're most welcome here."
"Though it seems Master Col and Miss Holo are still looking at the paintings."
"Might I ask how you're all related?"
"My trading route generally covered lands farther south. I happened to meet Holo at one of my stops there."
"I see."
"Holo had been asked a favor by a friend long ago - that she would guarantee bountiful harvests of the wheat in a certain town. But over time the village forgot about her, and she decided to return home. My wagon happened to be passing by, and she simply hopped in and stowed away."
"But it had been some several centuries since she'd left her homelands, and so she doesn't know where they are. So we've been traveling 46/184 here and there in search of them. We met Col on the way. He's from a town in the north called Pinu."
"Oh, Pinu?"
"That's quite far away. Ah... but I see now why old Huskins would have told you of Fran Vonely."
"The northlands are a place of invasion and conquest. The placenames are always changing. It might be that I do know this Yoitsu of yours; I simply know it by a different name."
"When you said you wanted a map of the north, I thought for sure you were involved with the conflict up there."
"Ah... er... you're not, are you?"
"Are you referring to the events surrounding the Debau Company? So the rumors are true, are they?"
"Er, no, I... if you want to know whether it's true, the fact is that I have no good evidence. It's a place constantly awash in unpleasant rumors."
"What do you yourself believe, Mr. Hugues?"
"The simple truth is that... I have no interest in it."
"You have no interest?"
"That's right. More than a few of us are simply plugging our ears and closing our eyes to the tale, just as we did with the Moon-Hunting Bear. They'll mine what they can mine, and when they're done, they'll 47/184 leave. In any case, scenery is not eternal. Though the landscape might change completely, the land itself will not simply disappear from the earth, so..."
"That's why I've never tried to learn anything more about it. I'm not strong like old Huskins, and if I knew more, it would only worry me. Just as it worries you and Miss Holo and young Col."
"I apologize for asking."
"Not at all. I'm sorry I couldn't be of any help. So then, will you be returning to your room?"
"no,"
"I'll be returning on my own."
"I see. Might I offer you something warm to drink in the parlor?"
"If she wanted to steal from me, it would be faster for her to simply bite my head off. And anyway, we forest dwellers don't lie."
"Ah, my apologies."
"Was it not tasty?"
"You humans do love your gold. Though 'twould be a bother if everything turned to gold."
"In that case, find something that's not gold, and sell it high."
"Where's Col?"
"Couldn't find anything, eh?"
"Mm."
"That just means you've still something to look forward to, eh?"
"Is it... wrong of me?"
"Wrong?"
"Like those sheep, Hugues said. Most of them plugged their ears and shut their eyes..."
"You mean about wanting to get involved after hearing the truth?"
"I may say this or that, but the truth is that I think of myself as special,"
"I can get through most things simply by showing my fangs. I can draw out the way of things. That's what I thought. But..."
"There were no paintings there of the land I knew. What does that mean?"
"Plugging one's ears and closing one's eyes for fear of the truth? 'Tis all I can do to laugh at such foolishness. But who is the master of this shop? Who is it who still knows many of his old friends? Who is it who even now still works to offer comfort to his kind? Compared with that..."
"... What am I doing?"
"Nobody knows what the right thing to do is."
"You yourself have been prepared to put your life at risk for the sake of your principles. Am I wrong?"
"Just think about when you were buried in the ground. You're Holo the Wisewolf, aren't you?"
"And I do know one thing,"
"When you worry, so do I."
"Fool,"
"Quite right,"
"So, the next thing to do is...?"
"I'll go apologize,"
"You do that,"
"Miss Fran Vonely has returned."
"Is this the merchant who called after me?"
"I am Kraft Lawrence."
"I am Fran Vonely."
"Shall we sit?"
"So, what is it that you wished to ask me about?"
"Yes. We're journeying in search of a certain place in the northlands. All we know is the ancient name of the place. We've heard that you're very well-versed in the old tales, which is what brought us to visit this company."
"And what is the name of the place?"
"Yoitsu."
"That's the old name of a rather remote area."
"So you're familiar with it?"
"I am aware of it, but few are able to draw maps of the north, making them extremely precious."
"We would compensate you properly."
"Properly?"
"In that case, fifty lumione ought to suffice."
"However, given the circumstances, I suppose I wouldn't mind doing it for free."
"Huh?"
"I notice you're dressed as a nun."
"... My name is Holo."
"Miss Holo, is it? Pleased to meet you. I am Fran Vonely."
"Have you something for me?"
"Yes. If you're a nun, then I would ask a favor of you."
"So long as it's in my power."
"It's not so very difficult a thing. Miss Holo, Mr. Lawrence, and..."
"Ah, er - Col! My name's Col."
"Mr. Col, then."
"With the three of you, it should be fine."
"Stop!"
"I'd like your help in Taussig."
"... Is that...?"
"Yes. I suppose you've heard from Mr. Hugues? It's the reason I'm in this town. I would ask your assistance in learning more about the village's legend."
"And you'll draw us a map if we assist you?"
"Yes. So long as you'll gather information and verify its truth."
"gather information and verify its truth,"
"It's a promise, then."
"My thanks."
"And the preparations for departure?"
"Ah, th-they're all finished."
"Very well. We'll leave tomorrow. Mr. Lawrence, you can handle a wagon?"
"Tomorrow should be fine."
"Mr. Hugues,"
"I'll take my dinner in my room. I have preparations to attend to."
"V-very well. Ah, er, but..."
"But?"
"Please explain the details to Miss Holo and her company, if you will,"
"I'm sorry."
"Fool,"
"I've suffered my share at her boldness and unyielding smile, too. She is a stubborn, obstinate silversmith. I chased her in town, across fields, and into the mountains, finally saving her from an accident before she would finally speak to me. So... you are fortunate she was even willing to deal with you, even on the vaguest of terms."
"Er, so... Is there something important in Taussig?"
"It's just a village like any other."
"So why, then?"
"Their legend of the forest and lake isn't so special a thing. 59/184 It's said that once an angel walked alongside the river that flows from the lake, then leapt up a waterfall to a golden door that opened along with the sound of a heavenly beast's cry."
"In addition to that, there's another story like that."
"Another one?"
"I suppose you could call it a witch legend. I don't know the details myself, but I hear it's rather famous upriver around Lenos. Evidently there's a legend that a nun also said to be a witch came to Taussig and settled there, or perhaps it's closer to a rumor. The lord of Taussig is loyal to the Church, so of course they all strongly deny that there's a witch there, but..."
"Ah, I see. And because of that, the villagers there are extremely suspicious of outsiders, right?"
"The reason Fran asked you along, Mr. Lawrence, is because she knows full well that no one there will so much as speak to her if she goes alone. If nothing else, her ethnicity is very uncommon in this area."
"Is she from the desert?"
"That is the story. But she's had no parents as long as she can remember and claims to have been raised by a wealthy money changer in the duchy of Laondirre. I have little sense of how she then came to be a silversmith. She's joked about being a slave, but given her attitudes, I wonder how much of that is a joke..."
"She's certainly got pluck."
"Yes. Sometimes I think she must be from a line of warriors somewhere, but... in any case, she has many secrets. Oh, and please keep this-"
"-A secret, of course."
"Mr. Hugues, you seemed a bit apprehensive - do you think the village will be dangerous?"
"To be perfectly honest, I don't know. They're not a place of business. The villagers rarely visit the town, and townspeople go there even less often than that. Frankly, they're like a jar of food where you've forgotten what you put in it and when."
"Oh, do you suppose there's anything there that would be dangerous even with me along?"
"If you say so, it matters little what we might say, but..."
"Then I care not. In exchange for fifty gold pieces, she gets to use us as she pleases. Such nerve!"
"And that fool's even knowledgeable about the north-lands that have you all so intimidated. Is it not just as old man Huskins said?"
"'Tis true that he who chases two hares catches neither, but no matter how many interesting things are stored in that head of hers, it's still just one head. So if we do not bite it here, when will we?"
"So, that's the way of it. Ah, and Hugues, was it?"
"Y-yes?"
"If we should end up angering that fool such that she never trades here again..."
"... Aye, should that happen... I'll apologize."
"Ah, just like a wolf!"
"Mm."
"Just who... does that little fool... think she is?"
"That delicious, is it?"
"Not you, Col. That's only your second piece, right? The one next to you is on her sixth."
"If it gets us so much of this sort of bread, you ought to become an artist yourself!"
"I can sketch simple pictures of goods... and drawings of my future shop, I suppose. I showed you, didn't I?"
"Mm... I suppose."
"Can you draw, Col?"
"Ah, er... well, I suppose I can draw angels or spirits..."
"From copying manuscript illustrations?"
"Yes. When I had no money and was rolling out sheepskin parchments on nails, sometimes the scribes would teach me a little."
"And what about you...? I suppose there's no point in asking."
"Hmph. I do not draw. You can't eat a picture of an apple,"
"Well, Fran's skills must be impressive for her to command such tribute. And she's followed after legends from many lands,"
"She's seen a lot of trouble, I'll bet. The northlands are still disputed territory. With belief turning to superstition, and superstition to belief with such dizzying speed, tracking down legends is a dangerous business. Given that, her price might be a fair one."
"She's to be admired,"
"Hmph. I've admired quite enough,"
"The stone's warm."
"Are you sure you don't want to sit by the fire?"
"It would ruin my view."
"About tomorrow..."
"Once we arrive in the village, what sort of arrangements shall we make?"
"I shall leave it in your capable hands."
"In that case, I'll introduce you as a Church-affiliated silversmith and Holo as a nun. Will that do?"
"... I shouldn't think there will be any problem with that."
"Holo will be an apprentice nun and maidservant. Col will be our guide. I'll be a traveling merchant hired to be the group's eyes and ears."
"Very well,"
"Is there a problem?"
"... No, nothing. I was just amused at how if we assemble the necessary actors, it's true that even I might look like a nun."
"What church?"
"Let's say we're from the Church city of Ruvinheigen. There's certainly more than one church 67/184 there and many factions besides. Even if our answer's a vague one, we won't be easily found out."
"..."
"You're familiar with some rather faraway towns."
"A lie that can't be disproven is no different from the truth. A place as far away as Ruvinheigen is a safer story, I thought."
"Was that your base?"
"I'm a traveling merchant originally from that area. Holo simply jumped into my wagon bed when I passed through a nearby town. Then..."
"... And told me that she wanted to go north and that I should take her. As far as Col goes, we ran into him as we were heading down the Roam River, and he joined our travels."
"So this map of the north you want is for..."
"Yes... the only thing my companion remembers about her homeland is that it was called Yoitsu."
"I see,"
"I shall be counting on you tomorrow."
New Convo:

"... Have we arrived?"
"If we turn down this road, then go straight, we'll soon be at the village, apparently."
"Speaking of which, I neglected to ask you, but that wasn't you in that tale, was it?"
"Alas, I've no bird friends aside from that one lass from some time ago, and I've no feathers myself."
"And no ideas, either?"
"Had the legendary figure in question been me, they would've forced that fool to draw them a map..."
"If all goes well when we begin to ask around, how shall we fill our remaining time?"
"Perhaps I ate a bit too much wheat bread,"
"If you would, please,"
"Now, then,"
"My, my... have we travelers here?"
"Greetings to you. I am a traveling merchant. My name is Kraft Lawrence."
"Oh, a merchant, are you?"
"We've come from Ruvinheigen, a place far to the south."
"Ruvin..."
"Ruvinheigen."
"It's known as the city of the Church."
"What business would people of the Church have with this village?"
"Actually, we've heard tell of a legend regarding a holy angel that came to earth here. As faithful servants of God, we were 73/184 hoping we could hear more of the tale..."
"Is the angel here in the village now?"
"No! Don't be absurd!"
"It had nothing to do with this village. It's true that it came through here but merely asked directions. It truly, truly had no business here!"
"I understand. I understand!"
"Travelers, are you?"
"It's all right, elder. Calm yourself."
"Circa!"
"Apologies, kind travelers. He didn't say anything too terrible to you, did he?"
"No, not at all. However, I appear to have asked him something terrible, as he seemed deeply frightened..."
"Misfortune always comes from the outside, after all."
"My name is Kraft Lawrence. I'm a traveling merchant,"
"Heureux Mueller,"
"So, there aren't many possibilities for why the elder would be so afraid. One, his time has come. Two, a tax collector has come. Three, someone asking after bad rumors has come."
"Actually, we've come to hear the legend of the angel."
"The angel?"
"Oh! So that's it, eh?"
"Might we be able to hear more?"
"Ha-ha-ha! You needn't bow and scrape so. I'll bet you've heard all sorts of bad things about this village in town. They all think anyone who doesn't live in a town are ignorant and superstitious. And I suppose there are some ignorant villages around, but not us. I'll tell you as much as you want to hear of the angel legend."
"Now then, kind traveler... Mr. Lawrence, was it? Have you and your companions eaten?"
"No, we haven't,"
"Then we'll treat you to some of the deer we've just slaughtered,"
"Vino, we'll handle the tanning. Let us borrow your hearth, will you?"
"Ah, God's will be done,"
"This isn't leisure time, understand?"
"I know, I know. 'No wine,' right?"
"Now then, this way. Follow me!"
"I'll go fetch some firewood, so please go and wait inside."
"So you grind flour by hand in this village?"
"Hmm? Ah, oh yes. You can just leave your things there. We'll just add these to the fire... there. I'll go get some meat,"
"Why do you ask?"
"Hmm?"
"Oh, I was just thinking that it's rare to see people grinding flour by hand when there's a river nearby,"
"Should be ready soon,"
"I-I cannot eat meat-"
"Oh!"
"Ah, yes, I've heard that moderation pleases God, but... I believe you may at least eat some vegetables."
"This deer ate nothing but leaves from the day it was born, so it's no different than those plants it ate."
"Now, then, please eat,"
"It's delicious."
"The deer was butchered just this morning. You're quite lucky."
"It's true, meat this good is hard to come by in towns."
"So, you're here for the legend of the angel? You'd come all the way out here just for that?"
"Yes. Though we heard the broad strokes of it back in town."
"Circumstances led to my becoming a guide for Miss Fran here, and she simply must learn more about the legend."
"I see... But why would a nun wish to know such a thing?"
"While Miss Fran is a nun who's pledged service to her holy order, she's also an exceptional silversmith. The bishop has charged her to make a silver statue in the image of the angel."
"I see..."
"Holo here is serving Miss Fran by the order of the bishop, and as the boy Col was born in the north, he's acting as our guide. And my unworthy self is acting as our little group's eyes and ears."
"So, we're hoping to hear more. And..."
"If possible, we'd like to be taken to the place where the legend is said to have transpired."
"Aye, I don't mind doing that, but..."
"I wonder if it will be all right, though. I saw your provisions when you arrived - do you plan on staying the night in the witch's forest?"
"The witch's... forest?"
"That's the source of all the strange rumors about our village here. You've heard about the witch, haven't you?"
"As far as that goes, we'd only heard that there were rumors..."
"Mm, is that so? Maybe the stories they tell in town are finally calming down. Anyway, it's not a complicated tale. If you want to go to the witch's forest, I can lead you right there. It's not far."
"If it's no trouble, then the sooner the better."
"Ha-ha-ha, trouble? Thanks to you lot coming, I've gotten to eat venison and drink wine and call it work! I suppose merchants and nuns don't do it often, but butchering a deer is hard work!"
"Now, then. I suppose I'll need to tell you the legend of the angel before we go. It'll be no good if I wind up telling you the tale in the middle of the witch's forest,"
"So how much do you all know?"
"That by a forest lake near this village, a beast howled as a door to heaven opened; then an angel flew up into it... roughly."
"That's about the size of it. The 'forest' in this case runs along a river that flows from the lake. This happened back when the village elder was a boy, during a cold, cold winter."
"On one windy day, it was so cold that people's ears seemed about to freeze solid and be blown away. The village hunters had been trapped in the forest for three or four days, thanks to a sudden blizzard. Fortunately there was a small charcoal-making cottage beside the waterfall that flowed from the lake. The night the snow finally stopped falling, the skies cleared until there wasn't a cloud to be seen, and the moon shined so brightly they say it was like the sun. The wind still blew fiercely, howling terribly through the forest, but the hunters had been up in the cottage for days, and they all wanted to breathe some of the outside air. They gathered their strength and went out, and just then-"
"-They heard a low, long howl. Ooooo... ooooo... it went, and they were all terribly afraid. There were spirits in the forests and mountains, they remembered, and so they decided to go back into the charcoal cottage. But the moment they tried to do so, the howl stopped. And then they looked toward the lake."
"And then in that moment they saw a silver, shining angel of pure white, a pair of wings on its back. From the bottom of the waterfall, it beat those wings, flying up through golden doors that had opened in the heavens."
"Or so the story goes. It's been passed down as the legend of the angel ever since."
"I see..."
"But nobody's seen an angel since. I hear the story once reached town and our village was quite lively for a while, but lately all it's good for is making children happy."
"So, Mr. Vino, do you..."
"Hmm?"
"Do you think it's just a legend, too?"
"Well... Who knows, eh?"
"As for us, we'd like to believe it."
"Ha-ha,"
"Sometimes I go along with Mueller into town and hear all sorts of tales of gods and devils from poor villages like this one, and most of them are nonsense. I heard one about glittering eyes that shone every night on a mountain, and it turned out to be a gold vein. So it was probably something like that for us, too. But..."
"If our village's angel legend is like that, too, well... that's a bit sad. Nothing to do about it, though."
"The clever ones of the village say it must have been the snow, blowing up in the light to look like angels' wings. And perhaps that's really so."
"Oh, and now I've shared this strange story with you important Church types. And here you probably hoped it was true, eh? But please don't think the good people of Taussig are unbelievers with no faith in angels, eh? Even I want to believe, after all!"
"Although... I don't know that I should ask you to believe in our angel legend."
"Hmm?"
"Hup,"
"The talk of the witch, you see. It's not unrelated to the legend of the angel,"
"Misfortune always comes from the outside. Mueller's always saying it."
"Just go north from here. The riverbed's really wide, see? Used to be the river filled it up all the way, they say."
"Still, I'm impressed that you go out to hunt in this weather. I was surprised to hear you'd gotten deer."
"It's because you can see their tracks so clearly. Of course, they know that, too, and they know there are only certain places we can go in the snow, so they avoid those spots. But we're as clever as wolves, so we hide in snow; we become the air; and then, when the time comes, we strike!"
"But there's a lake, isn't there? Seems like animals would gather there."
"So you might think, but the hunting itself has been strange around here for years."
"What do you mean?"
"It's because of the witch. The forest around the lake is the witch's forest, and nobody from the village will go near it."
"Ah, this is just the sort of thing that makes people misunderstand. It's not that we really think there's a witch. Truly."
"So when you say 'witch,' you mean..."
"I hear originally it had to do with some important nun. Er..."
"?"
"Ah, apologies. I can't seem to remember her name... but anyway, she existed. From a town called Enos on the Woam River?"
"Perhaps you mean Lenos and the Roam River."
"Ah, yes, that. Anyway, that's where she was, and she was beautiful and clever. She gave such wonderful sermons that even God would be enchanted by them, they say."
"Her fervor reformed many a wicked heart. But because she preached every waking hour of every day, eventually she had run out of people in the town who needed to hear her message. So then she began to give her message to a different group."
"She began with birds and cats. Everyone in town praised her mercy and her charity. But then she began to preach to pigs and rats, and then the wind began to change. Eventually the stray dogs that wandered the city began to chase her, and yet still she preached like a woman possessed. The people of the town wanted her to stop, but she wouldn't consider it. Then one day..."
"... She vanished. Along with the dogs that had hounded her for her sermons."
"Er - then what happened? She disappeared and what happened to her?"
"Now, now, don't worry yourself so. This was a story Mueller heard in town. From here on out, it becomes the story as we saw it ourselves."
"It was the height of a hot summer. It was a terrible season. We were suffering out in the wheat fields, and insects swarmed everywhere. Maybe ten years ago, it was. That's when the nun came, wearing robes too thick even for winter. We were all astonished to see her because behind her trailed countless stray dogs."
"The elder said it was a fallen angel here to herald the end of days, falling over himself in his desperation. Ever since, he sits out in front of the village, raising a great fuss whenever travelers come by."
"I'm very sorry to hear that..."
"Ah, he was such a bother then; it's a mercy he's quieter now. Anyway, back to the nun outside of town. Mueller was brave enough to go out to ask her what her intentions were - who she was, and where she came from, what she wanted. And this is how she answered."
"We realized she was talking about the legend of the angel that was connected to the forest and the lake. Even Mueller wanted to be rid of her, so we led her straight there. But-"
"-The moment we arrived at the forest, the nun ordered her dogs to attack. Here, here's the scar I got."
"After that, she took the forest with her dogs and let none enter, living there as though it belonged to her. They were our best hunting grounds, but we had no choice but to find new places to hunt. A terrible story, is it not? That's why everyone calls her a witch. It's out of spite, and that's a fact."
"So, what happened to the witch?"
"Who knows? No one's seen her for years, so maybe she's gone somewhere else... But since no one will venture to check, there's no way to be sure. It's best to let sleeping dogs lie, after all, don't you think?"
"We don't want to invite any extra trouble, so we've just stopped going to the forest. Will you all really be all right staying the night there?"
"Oh yes. After all, three of us are servants of God."
"He's an apprentice scribe, you see, training to copy the scriptures. It's a blessed vocation."
"Ah, excuse my rudeness."
"If anything, it's more dangerous for them to spend the night with me."
"Ah, that said..."
"Hmm?"
"If the worst happens and we return to the village during the night, please don't mistake us for the witch and chase us off, eh?"
"Ha-ha, of course not! We're used to life in the mountains, and even some of us have come crying home after our first night in the charcoal cottage. Our own children have to go into the mountains, so we smack them hard and send them back out. We won't treat you the same way, though."
"The night road is dangerous, but every night has its dawn. I can tell you that much as a man of the mountains myself."
"Well, then,"
"If you follow this up, you'll come to the waterfall. Beyond that is the lake, and right before the waterfall should be the charcoal cottage. And if you decide you can't manage the stay, you can just come back to the village."
"God's blessing be with you."
"I don't like it,"
"We've gotten all she asked, and still she's so haughty."
"Are you not irritated yourself?"
"If I got angry at every little thing, my body wouldn't be able to hold it all."
"You're too kind,"
"-Hey!"
"Don't build a roof on a roof,"
"It's fine,"
"She seems to be rather certain of herself."
"Mr. Lawrence, our things,"
"I'll get them right away,"
"Don't fight with her."
"Where's the fool?"
"She went to fetch her silver-smithing tools from the wagon. I suppose she didn't want me touching them."
"Mm."
"Where's Col?"
"You'll find out when you come back here."
"The other two are in the back?"
"Yes. Ah, let me help you."
"Is there something more back there?"
"You'll understand when you see. Anyway, I'll need to borrow something."
"... Huh?"
"You'll be cold dressed like that. Put these on."
"We'll be back before sunset. Can I leave dinner in your hands?"
"Huh?"
"I expect this is the 'witch' the villagers were on about,"
"H-hey!"
"What? It's fine. She's long since dried out. I thought Col might be frightened, but he's a stronger lad than I reckoned."
"Still, to die gazing at a symbol of the Church... hard to imagine she was a witch."
"Col says she was a rather well-known person."
"Oh?"
"Still, you."
"Hmm?"
"Have a look at this."
"Where?"
"It must be somewhere else, right?"
"Fool. Have a look at the dust. It's different there than elsewhere."
"I don't know how long ago, but at some point someone took a single volume from here."
"So what are you saying?"
"You've figured it out, haven't you? Someone's been coming here."
"That little fool knew of this place before we came here,"
"Don't let your guard down,"
"I know. But where did she say she was going with Col?"
"Hmm. She said she was going to have a look at the lake."
"The lake?"
"Don't ask me why. I've no idea."
"Shall we go look as well?"
"Mm. You seem to have gotten a bit cleverer,"
"H-hey!"
"What do you make of the dried-out nun, eh?"
"What do you mean, 'What'?"
"I can't imagine the term witch is very apt, myself."
"Nor do I. You saw the flower on her desk, right?"
"I've seen human females of her like many times before. The word kind-hearted may as well have been invented to describe them."
"She was one of their like. Or so I suppose."
"Ah,"
"And, you know..."
"Hmm?"
"They say she led her wild dogs into the forest."
"But they may just as well have been wolves, eh? So tread lightly, you."
"Well, I must say I understand our dried-out nun's feelings."
"Why's that?"
"We're both patient but overreact in equal measure to our stored-up frustration,"
"Like jumping naked into the wagon bed of a traveling merchant?"
"Or heading south in search of a friend."
"So, is the story that an angel passed this way true?"
"If they were anything like you or Mr. Hugues, they might have been mistaken for an angel."
"Mmm... I did see a bird once on the island."
"How long would a scent even last?"
"Hmph. It was just a try. And anyway, even years later, I can still get a sense of the place. This doesn't have that feel. 'Tis a weak forest that humans might easily do as they wish to it."
"It was probably just a drift of snow blown up into the air. You humans are cowards, but cowards invent the best monsters."
"Do you know of any?"
"Plenty from back when I lived among the wheat. When night fell, youngsters would get up to mischief in the fields. I'd say there were ten kinds of wheat monsters, at least."
"Though sometimes they saw monsters that had nothing to do with my kind."
"For example?"
"The one I'm remembering now was a boy who tripped and fell in the mountains and thought the sound of his own crying as it echoed through the valley was the howl of a monster. So then he got even more scared and cried louder."
"Oh, like that. But... ah... I see."
"Hmm?"
"I just remembered the story of a famous miracle whose trick was revealed."
"Oh ho."
"It has to do with the northern campaign. Every traveler knows the story."
"But it involves the Church, so don't tell Col."
"Fortunately there's nothing else between us that needs to be kept a secret."
"A famous troupe of knights was participating in the campaign and was losing a fierce battle to pagan forces. As the sky grew red with approaching night, the knights' commander was about to order the retreat - when suddenly, a huge shadow covered the battlefield. The moment he looked up to see what it was, everyone there seemed to spot it. A huge, white Church crest drifting across the sky."
"Birds, weren't they?"
"That's right. A flock of birds migrating. But the knights took it as a sign that victory was assured and somehow, in the small amount of daylight left, managed to escape their poor position and win the day. The flag of the nation that was founded on that land has a red background with a white Church crest on it to commemorate that day. And thus had a miracle occurred. The end!"
"Mm. But if so, how might one summon the angel again?"
"What a beautiful lake,"
"I'd rather come in summertime,"
"Can you swim?"
"Aye. 'Tis a lovely feeling, having most of one's weight borne by the water."
"But if you jumped into the lake in that huge body of yours, all the water would overflow."
"But if I were to jump in with this body, then you'd be the one to overflow."
"I suppose Col and Fran must have gone quite a ways."
"Mm,"
"Is something the matter?"
"Mm. This waterfall may be quite new."
"Huh?"
"I suppose you humans wouldn't exactly call it recent, but look, there. Does it not look as though that cliff collapsed?"
"The rocks or whatever fell from there piled up to create the waterfall spot. The lake was originally bowl shaped and surrounded by mountains like so."
"But if the river level dropped, that means..."
"That's why. You can't fill a chipped bowl past the edge of its chip. If the water rises, it will drain down to that level."
"Or perhaps the angel made a foothold so that it could leap up into the heavens from it,"
"You truly are a dreamer,"
"So, did you find anything?"
"Well, once you're settled in, we'll have dinner."
"You have a fine traveling companion,"
"He's been a great help to us. Though it seems he was a bit short on stamina today."
"Not at all..."
"By the way, we did some thinking about the legend of the angel,"
"Have you ever seen the flag of the Torhildt Republic?"
"... Have you knowledge of the story?"
"Some."
"I suppose I also think it was a bit of snow or something being blown up on the wind,"
"Or maybe the real thing."
"That would certainly be the best answer. However..."
"... I understand you've investigated too many legends to truly believe that."
"That's right. Most were shams. A few were from people who mistook what they saw and jumped to conclusions. And still fewer were truly special, truly real, as though something genuinely extraordinary had happened there."
"And which do you suppose this is?"
"I originally heard the angel legend from a dear friend."
"They admitted they could not remember where they'd seen it. But what they told me about was largely the same as this legend."
"They exaggerate, but they don't lie. And after so many years..."
"You think you've finally found out."
"I can't bring myself to believe that the legend here is nonsense. I believe it exists and is something that can be seen. The-"
"-The nun there believed in it and came here."
"I do believe my friend saw it as well. Something that could be called a miracle..."
"But it is to laugh... to see such a thing and not remember where you saw it."
"Ah, I shouldn't,"
"Why would you tell me this?"
"As an apology."
"An apology?"
"Back at the trading company..."
"I could have spoken with you differently. I thought you were merely another greedy merchant."
"No, that's quite all right..."
"I thought you only wanted a map of the north so you could profit from it."
"So what was it that changed your mind, eh?"
"Now that we've come this far, you wish our help, perhaps?"
"Aye, fine then."
"We're asking for your help as well, so 'tis hardly the time for holding grudges."
"Well, then,"
"Did you notice anything strange when we arrived in Taussig?"
"As a merchant?"
"Yes."
"They were grinding flour by hand... even though there's such a high waterfall so close by."
"In springtime when the thaw comes, there would be plenty of water for a waterwheel, and it's not so very far from the village. So the only reason the landlord wouldn't have built a mill is out of pity for the villagers, or..."
"Or if the villagers themselves resisted the idea. And the answer is indeed the latter."
"The village originally used the legend of the angel as a reason not to build a water mill,"
"That's..."
"If a mill were built, it would be for extracting more labor from the villagers - they would have been made to construct the very tool that would choke them. Meanwhile, the northern campaigns were reaching their peak, the landlord, wanting to borrow the Church's might, took the profit of using the legend of the angel to flatter the Church over the profit of the increased output of a water mill."
"But as times changed, the pagans grew stronger. I assume you know that the northern campaign has been canceled."
"In other words,"
"with the recent decline of Church power, things can turn bad if the landlord gets a whiff of their involvement."
"Yes. In the past, money was made in providing the northern campaign with supplies, but... lacking shame or concern, and any sort of fear of God, the attitude has changed completely. As you might imagine, in an area like this with so many pagan landlords, it can be 113/184 dangerous to appease the Church while its power is on the decline. So far their reaction has gone well."
"After much worrying, the landlord hit upon an idea. Claim the devout nun who came all the way out here chasing the angel legend was a witch."
"By claiming a witch had come and was causing trouble, he wouldn't have to defy the Church, but could save face with the villagers. And for the villagers themselves it was awfully convenient; since they didn't want to build a water mill, a witch in the forest gave them the perfect excuse not to enter it. A mill would mean increased taxation, which would instantly make their lives much harder."
"Miss Fran... where did you learn all of this?"
"It's all written right here. This is the diary of Katerina Lucci, the nun laid to rest in the next room."
"I expect one of the villagers had an attack of conscience and wanted to let the world know the truth. It's a total coincidence that it should end up in my hands. An acquaintance of mine who handles such things just happened to mention it."
"But if that's true... why would you tell us? I mean, to begin with..."
"It won't be long before the bells ring and the Church arrives."
"So it's the Debau Company, eh?"
"So you're familiar. As you've guessed, if the Church comes again, the claim that there's a witch in their domain won't work. So this is an extremely dangerous place."
"The villagers and landlord alike are probably terrified that an investigation into the witch rumors would be a precursor to another round of Church attacks on the north,"
"So what we need to do is act such that we calm those fears."
"On our way back around the lakeside, there was someone observing this place."
"Naturally I'm not asking you to stay here with me from here on. Just until the snow melts will be fine. I expect the legend of the angel only applies in wintertime."
"And then you'll draw us a map of the north?"
"So you'll help me, then?"
"Of course,"
New Convo:

"It's no different than if we were in the cottage."
"I imagine she was thinking only of the legend last night, eh?"
"Mm?"
"She said as much to Col, didn't she? 'Let's not miss any hints of the legend,' she said."
"Ah, mm."
"It's true that so long as she seems so serious, neither the villagers nor the landlord can very well come out and quibble with her,"
"'Tis rather absurd for her to have such a reputation as a perverse, stubborn silversmith."
"... Oh?"
"I expect she's simply chasing after whoever it is she's in love with. That strikes me as neither perverse nor particularly stubborn."
"single-minded."
"'Tis rather charming, is it not?"
"I suppose."
"And to use an apology to deliver such a story. Rather clever of her, was it not?"
"Of course, you do know why it was so clever, don't you?"
"... Sorry. I have no idea."
"Fool!"
"Wh-why are you so-"
"Fool! So you're saying you've no notion of why I found her so irritating, either?!"
"... Yes."
"Well... I suppose that's the sort of dunce you always were..."
"I was the only one who was angry. She was the only one who was worried she'd gone too far. And you're not so much generous as you are about as insensitive as a corpse."
"You were utterly disgraced!"
"And right in front of me, no less."
"-Ah..."
"Yet still you flail around like some sort of simpleton..."
"If you dare speak now, I'll show you my true ire."
"... I'm sorry."
"You truly do seem to move from one foolish act to the next."
"That was surely more effective than any tiresome grooming."
"Still, I suppose this sort of thing is not so uncommon in life,"
"... I don't follow you,"
"Oh, just that even the ones that get worshiped as gods had the same troubles, that's all."
"Huh?"
"It happened quite often. I didn't much care one way or the other, but the village elders would scold the younger villagers if they bungled the festival preparations, striking them and saying they'd been rude to me, entirely unconcerned with how I might actually feel. I'd watch this all at a loss... and to think that I'd end up doing just the same thing."
"Though I suppose 'tis better to carefully consider the other's feelings and then act with the best of intentions. Though perhaps it will suffice to say that the person in question needn't worry about that."
"The problem is,"
"what to do when they're already a silent corpse."
"So - that is my reason for wanting to help the girl."
"Though if we go around saying this or that about someone who's died, we're no better than the villagers. And that dried-out corpse doesn't care what people call it. So my lending a hand is not much different than whoever it is that comes and cleans the cottage."
"It's useful for the living, though."
"'Tis hard indeed to continue moving forward as you live. I do feel for the villagers and their landlord. And of course..."
"... You can't help but cheer for the girl who goes to such efforts for the sake of the one she loves, eh?"
"Will you go to the village and have them draw me a map?"
"... A map?"
"Yes."
"Did you find a clue to the legend of the angel?"
"When you say 'map,' what sort of map do you mean?"
"Hmm?"
"I'm sorry. I need... I need a map that shows how the rivers flow out from the lake."
"The river?"
"Yes. Walking around the lake, something occurred to me. When it snows and the temperature drops suddenly, all the rivers and streams will freeze. Which means the destination of their flow is lost. Even that waterfall would freeze solid if there were enough snow and cold. But then eventually - well, no barrier will last forever. So I need a map that shows the flow of every stream, no matter how small."
"The water would be full of ice and snow, and it would break through and overflow all at once. And it would look like-"
"It would look like the wings of an angel, I should think,"
"I think that's probably it,"
"I hope we get to see it."
"Yes!"
"Well, then, I suppose we should be off ourselves,"
"She was like a child."
"'Tis even more childish to believe that an adult should greet a happy event with a calm face."
"It's true that people become more childish as they get older,"
"Mm. So you're wondering just how old I'll become, eh?"
"This seems very important to her."
"And to see such a smile from her after she'd worn so thick a mask. I wonder what she would've done had we not been the ones to escort her? That little fool."
"Indeed. They probably would've been scared off by her single-minded determination to chase the angel legend, turned tail, and left her on her own. Such things happen quite often."
"Well, she's got pluck enough to use Holo the Wisewolf of Yoitsu as her messenger. I'd say she's got good fortune to spare."
"I'm fortunate indeed to have been blessed with such a wonderful traveling companion as yourself. There, are you happy?"
"And just who are you thanking?"
"Holo the Wisewolf of Yoitsu,"
"Mm. Well, see to it that you stay good and thankful."
"Their lack of integrity angers me, but I can understand why they would wish to protect this,"
"Indeed. And if Miss Fran is to be believed, there are even some villagers who didn't want to claim Sister Katerina was a witch. Perhaps they meant to gain some redemption by keeping her cottage clean."
"Well, if we do our job, the evil witch may well turn back into a pious nun. Then Fran will be able to dedicate herself to searching out the angel legend, she'll draw us our map of the northlands, and everyone will be happy. Right?"
"So first things first - the map. It would be nice if we could track down Mr. Vino."
"Mr. Vino,"
"Hey, there. You seem to have made it back safely."
"Yes, thank you. Making arrows, eh?"
"Aye. It'll be spring soon, with humans and animals alike starting to stir. We'll shoulder our arrows and travel around to nearby landlords and towns to sell them. How did you fare?"
"Ah, yes, well, we have a favor to ask."
"Oh ho. What is it?"
"Actually, we need a map drawn for us."
"Ah, er, a... map, you say? We don't much use them. What sort of map?"
"One of the area around the lake, including all the streams and rivers that flow out from it."
"You're not thinking of building a water mill, are you?"
"We have no need of a water mill,"
"It seems the way the water flows is important to the angel legend, and Sister Fran requires a map in order to properly guide us."
"Ah, I see. Well, if that's all, it should be fine. The village has been told to cooperate with you, and it gives me an excuse for a break, so."
"If you please, then,"
"Well, shall we go see Mr. Mueller? His place is the only one with paper and ink."
"Yes, let's."
"Hey, Mr. Mueller!"
"Ah, with our visitors. What is it?"
"I'm glad we caught you. We need to borrow paper and ink."
"Paper and ink?"
"They say they want a map. Of the lake area."
"A map?"
"Fine,"
"I'll draw it."
"You managed to sneak your way into getting meat yesterday without helping with the deer, didn't you?"
"Off you go, then. These are for Lanan, Suk, and Sylhet. Ask Jana about the big one."
"Fine, fine!"
"I'll draw it inside. A map of the lake, you said?"
"More precisely, the area surrounding the lake, including all the rivers and streams that flow out of it."
"Ah. That's a strange map to need."
"I'll bet Vino asked you if you were planning to build a water mill, eh?"
"He did indeed,"
"That fool. He came to me last night, pale faced, to tell me you'd asked about our hand grinding of grain. I gave him a smack and told him if you'd planned to build a mill, you wouldn't have gone out of your way to point out our ways."
"I hope this sort of paper will do."
"For your trouble,"
"Now then,"
"I don't think it will take much time, but feel free to sit anywhere."
"So how goes your quest for the legend?"
"She seems to have seized upon something. She was very insistent that I come and get this map."
"Ah, I see,"
"Was there a witch?"
"No, there wasn't."
"I see,"
"This map would be different depending on the season."
"She said all she needed was a map for the winter."
"I see. Well, this should do, then,"
"You can take it once the ink's dry. Given the hour, you ought to be able to make it by sunset."
"Thank you very much."
"Not at all. I'm sure Vino said the same thing last night."
"My thanks,"
"Now, I ought to go check in on Vino. You'd be surprised at how clumsy he can be. If he ruins those skins, I'll have to beat his backside with the tendons."
"Hmm?"
"What is it?"
"-!"
"What's the matter?"
"I have no idea. But they have spears."
"Mm."
"We summon Mueller and the village elder!"
"The landlord's governor. He's finally come!"
"You two-"
"There's a path to the lake from the rear of the village. It's well maintained, so you shouldn't have any problems. The governor doesn't know about you, so if you run you should arrive quickly. Tell the nun, will you please?"
"Tell her that the landlord's come to lay waste to any lands where the legend of the angel remains. And tell her to tell the Church."
"But-"
"Please! If you don't hurry, it will be too late!"
"We'll repay this favor. For the sister's sake, as well."
"The forest and the lake will be destroyed."
New Convo:

"What was all that about?"
"No idea. He said that was the governor. Seems like it'll be... trouble for the village."
"He said the forest and lake would be destroyed."
"He did,"
"I should've taken... my true form,"
"Ngh! Hey - what's wrong?"
"Don't raise your voice,"
"There's probably someone at the bottom of the hill."
"... If that's so, shouldn't they hide?"
"Fool. In this kind of place, even if they're in plain sight they won't be spotted, so long as they don't move. But even behind the trees, if we move, we'll be spotted."
"Hmph."
"What happened?"
"Soldiers came to the cottage. And you?"
"The same. Soldiers at the village. Apparently the landlord has come in force. They say the forest and lake will be destroyed."
"I'm impressed with their lack of scruples."
"You mean-"
"They've come here to make Katerina no more."
"I suppose you could say we're in an age of money, where things like Church or pagan no longer matter."
"I'd come so far... and now the landlord decides to act? I was so close... so, so close..."
"Did you get the map?"
"I did... but please, wait a moment."
"Please calm down. If the landlord has decided to destroy all traces of Katerina, then our presence is an obstacle. Arguing with him will be impossible, and he's hardly likely to let you continue to investigate the legend of the angel."
"I know the legend was right in front of you. And I know you didn't come here on some whim. But it's too dangerous. "We must flee."
"... No... I can't... I was so close..."
"I'm sorry, but..."
"Lud Kieman told me about you."
"He said you fear no god, you seize opportunities for profit, and you use your connections with skill."
"What is it you would have me do?"
"Please tell them that Katerina Lucci is a saint."
"That can't be..."
"Her candidacy for canonization has been submitted. They hid their identities in Lenos, but she had many among the nobility that supported her. The petition for her canonization to the pontiff has been submitted and even now is on the desk of the cardinalate. What do you think?"
"When Sister Katerina becomes Saint Katerina, everything in that cottage, including her body, will become holy relics."
"Ah!"
"When the landlord learns how much holy relics can 144/184 be worth, he'll give up on the water mill. If you doubt me, let's go back to the cottage and look at her diary. It's filled with the names and details of lords from many different lands. Even the fact that the cottage has been left alone is probably because the canonization proceedings were stalled."
"So you want me to sell... a saint?"
"I have heard that you're experienced in business."
"This is madness. There is no way a merchant like me can handle holy relics. Even if I passed myself off as one, it would last but a moment. With the narwhal in Kerube, it was Kieman who handled the bulk of the exchange, along with another merchant who was former nobility. And in Winfiel, I was on the edges of a deal involving a holy relic, but to be blunt, it wasn't on a scale that involved me."
"In exchange, I'll draw you a map of the northlands. Right away, if you like."
"... What?"
"Do you truly believe that's a fair trade?"
"I do indeed!"
"Are you saying you won't risk danger to get your map of the northlands?"
"To falsely approach the landlord and then negotiate with him on the pretenses of selling a saint? I cannot do it."
"I see,"
"Where are you going?"
"You got Hugues to talk to you, so I thought you were made of sterner stuff."
"I thought you were the same as me. But I was wrong."
"What do you-"
"Do you think you're going to get a map of the north with only that much resolve?"
"-!"
"She certainly hit you hard."
"But do you suppose she truly plans to sell that dried-out, old thing?"
"We should run,"
"We're going to leave Fran behind?"
"Once we've escaped to a safer place, we can ask Holo or even Hugues for help. We'll make sure she's safe. There are many people who need Miss Fran, after all."
"No, I mean... are you giving up on the legend of the angel that Miss Fran was chasing?"
"I know I forced myself off on you and Miss Holo, Mr. Lawrence, but I just can't abandon Miss Fran like this,"
"What's that?"
"Seems to be a book of scriptures..."
"Dear Kira... vai... en... Kirjavainen Mercenary Troop?"
"Fran... Vonely."
"Troop Chaplain, Fran Vonely."
"May they reach your prayers from this far-off land,"
"Decurion Martin Ghurkas killed in the battle of Lydion."
"Betrayed on the Lavan plains. Pursued by the soldiers of Marquis Lizzo. Cursed by God. Lienne the sutler died that night of injuries. He went in his sleep and left no will."
"Heimann Rosso, the centurion who'd been sheltered by the count, was betrayed and arrested. He passed in the dungeon in fine form and was always worried about you."
"In the town of Miligua in the Nacculi diocese, in the month of Saint Rafenne, executed by hanging. A last message for you was 'I'll see the angel before you...'"
"Ah"
"from this far-off land"
"Come, you."
"Sorry."
"Can we not help her?"
"So?"
"I know all I've got is my cheap sympathy."
"So why, then?"
"I was just thinking that it would be nice if the world were a gentler place."
"I was thinking how lovely it would be if things would go just a little more smoothly. How nice it would be to get past reality and common sense. Something like that."
"You truly are a fool."
"You know the world really isn't that happy a place?"
"I know. Still-"
"Still, what?"
"Don't you want to help this stubborn girl, with her painful past and a goal she can't give up?"
"If you fail, I won't forgive you."
"Of course,"
"Of course,"
"But what exactly do you plan to do?"
"Nothing too difficult. I'm just going to refer to Katerina as a saint."
"... So you'll sell her?"
"No. Not at all - all I have to say is that we've been employed for the service of confirming her application for canonization."
"But even the most foolish lord would investigate the matter, especially if he's a coward. Even if she is being considered for canonization, he'll soon discover that we've nothing to do with that. So what would that possibly...?"
"I did say I needed your help, didn't I?"
"... I thought you meant my knowledge,"
"In the legend of the angel, it's said that there was the howl of a great beast. If you'll lend your help, it'll be simple to put on a show that will prove Katerina's sainthood beyond any doubt."
"Mm."
"The truth is that Katerina's canonization proceedings have stalled. So long as the Church doesn't publicly confirm her sainthood, there will be no financial incentives in the form of valuable holy relics. And if there's nothing of value, how could I sell it?"
"A rather makeshift plan, if you ask me,"
"You could at least call it 'cunning.'"
"So all we need to do is tell the landlord as much. As money and faith are intertwined, if rumors start to spread, it won't do him any good, we'll say."
"Well, I suppose it's better than turning tail and running away,"
"I can see the falls,"
"'Tis a good view."
"She might have just sat down here and closed her eyes for an afternoon nap,"
"The wind's gotten cold,"
"You'll be drawing that map for us, then."
"We have our own convictions, too, after all."
"... I understand. I promise."
"Thank you."
"It's still a bit early for thank-yous."
"What do you plan to do?"
"As before, you're a silversmith dispatched by the bishop, that should be fine. But as another goal, I'd like to add that we're here to confirm particulars regarding the canonization."
"I've no intention of selling Katerina off. Instead, I'll state that her canonization is ongoing, so that the landlord won't give us any trouble."
"Understood."
"Let us go, then."
New Convo:

"You're the one they say came from Ruvinheigen?"
"That's right,"
"You saw nothing and heard nothing here. Or else you never came at all."
"What's your answer?"
"We have been sent by the bishop in order to render the legend of the angel in silverwork."
"And you may tell them you failed in your goal. Ruvinheigen is very far from here. No one will doubt you."
"Yes, that is quite true."
"However, that was not our only purpose."
"Do you know who the saint that lies in the cottage behind me is?"
"Saint...?"
"Her name is Katerina Lucci. She earned the trust of many a noble, and her application for canonization has been submitted to the pontiff in the far south. She is a genuine and true saint."
"..."
"We've been sent to investigate as part of the canonization process. After all, she was a woman who hated appearing in front of others. For a long time her whereabouts were unknown, but she was finally located, so..."
"However, the honored sister has passed peacefully away. There are many who without a title would treat even God as a cur, a beast, but I know the landlord here understands the way of things. I shall be sure to make note of that in my report. And incidentally..."
"I presume that you will need to consult with your honored lord?"
"It certainly seems that way."
"I am Kirchner Linguid."
"I am Kraft Lawrence of the Rowen Trade Guild,"
"Mm."
"I'll put it to you straight, then. Do you have any proof to support your claims?"
"What might I bring forth as evidence?"
"I have heard nothing of this supposed canonization. Something so important should certainly have reached my ears. So speak. Have you proof?"
"This involves many people in various positions. Someone like me isn't provided material proof. But if I might propose an alternative, I could list some of the names of the nobles who've charged me with this duty."
"Baron Lans of Rien. Sir Marth of Dorenne. Marquis Ivendott of Singhilt. Archbishop Corselio of the Lamann Archdiocese."
"There's Sirs Dune and Maraffe, and Countess Roez from the Linz duchy. And in Ploania..."
"F-fine, I understand. So... what must I do?"
"Please, do not worry. You weren't consulted regarding the canonization simply because this region is a complicated one. I understand that you've had trouble governing it."
"But as you can see, the cottage has been beautifully kept. It's clear to me that you, my lord, are a faithful and pious man. I am sure that 166/184 when they hear of this, those responsible for managing this matter will be relieved to hear it."
"Th-that's right. I imagine so."
"But this process being what it is, it must proceed in secret. Can I have your word that you will keep this quiet while the canonization proceeds?"
"... But that's..."
"There are many, many obstacles,"
"That's her!"
"That's her! That's her!"
"What do you mean, 'That's her?'"
"That's her, boss!"
"boss."
"It's just as the villagers said!"
"The villagers?"
"Aye, the villagers were talking about a dark-skinned silversmith, and that's got to be her!"
"T-tell me, then! What do you know?"
"I know there's nothing so absurd as the idea that these two are from the Church."
"Don't let 'em lie to you, boss! That tanned silversmith is named Fran Vonely, the black priestess of the Scarlet Hawk mercenary band!"
"She was the chaplain of the Kirjavainen mercenary troop, which made a bit of a name for itself in Ploania. My own band's got them to thank for quite a bit. They got my friend of twenty years in Kardin Gorge."
"They made important enemies left and right, and finally their leader was hung on suspicion of being a pagan. No matter how you reckon it, there's no way she'd turn into a friend of the Church."
"I-is this true?!"
"Just ask her yourself."
"S-so? Is this true?"
"I'm sure the angel knows the truth."
"Wh-what? What do you..."
"Fran Vonely, aren't you?"
"And if I say I'm not?"
"The villagers called this faithful nun a witch simply for their own meager profit. And now these sly nobles are paying their gold to have her dubbed a saint, this time for profits far vaster. And here, this landlord would destroy all trace of her just to build a water mill to satisfy his own piddling avarice. What do you think of this - of all of this?"
"My name is Fran Vonely. Am I a saint? Or am I a witch?"
"You all know what the right thing was."
"You'll know for certain when you do. After all, the angel is always watching."
"You witch!"
"Stop-!"
"-Ngh!"
"Protect the saint!"
"See for yourself what the truth is."
"Wh-where are you-"
"To see the angel myself."
"Do you hear it?"
"It's the howl of a beast."
"... It's coming."
"H-hey, the monster, it's gone!"
"Did we really see anything...?"
"The waterfall!"
"... Miss Fran!"
"Beautiful..."
"And then what happened?!"
"So, then what happened?"
"And then the village accepted the legend of the angel as true and most definitely came to believe in Katerina's sainthood. So that was that. However..."
"... Neither the villagers nor the landlord can very well claim they saw both an angel and a monster, so they've decided to pretend to the rest of the world as though the whole thing never happened."
"Ah, I see... I see."
"You seemed calmer when we actually returned,"
"You go into a trance when things turn serious like that, after all. Still, so that's how it all happened... When you brought her back here, I couldn't help but wonder what had wounded Miss Fran so grievously."
"But what was behind the angel legend after all?"
"An avalanche."
"An avalanche?"
"That's right. A huge volume of snow from the mountainside slid into the lake, making a gigantic wave that crashed into the waterfall. The sound of the heavenly army's march was actually the sound of rushing snow."
"S-so then, what about the beast's howl?"
"That was how it sounded after bouncing off of the lake. An echo, you see. This time it came from the sound of the men fighting. I'm sure sometime in the distant past there was some similar disturbance that caused it."
"The world certainly is full of wonders."
"That's certain enough,"
"Still, if everything's settled now, perhaps I ought to visit Taussig myself sometime. Though I doubt I'll be as brave or bold as Miss Holo,"
"Well, then, I'll take my leave,"
"Yes?"
"I saw the light and thought there might be a burglar."
"They say when caught, a burglar will always claim to have been trying to catch another burglar."
"It's cold."
"You should soothe fresh wounds with cold and old ones with heat."
"I had always thought to end my travels once I saw the angel."
"By travels, you mean...?"
"I was a girl obsessed, I realize now."
"We still haven't gotten that map from you,"
"More than once I've seen merchants venture out onto the battlefield in their efforts to be repaid."
"So are you saying I'll have to pass through the gates of heaven to get it?"
"Unfortunately, the scriptures say it's easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than it is for a merchant to reach heaven,"
"I'm afraid the same is true for me. I couldn't pass through the gates."
"So how about it, then? Helping others is a good way to atone for sins."
"If I let a merchant help me, who knows how many maps I'll end up having to draw."
"Payment for one,"
"I'll pay that."
"God's protection be with you."
"Back then..."
"Hmm?"
"Back then, on the falls..."
"On the falls?"
"Never mind,"
"I suppose it was my imagination."
"Good night."