
"We need to talk."
"In Lenos, there's a dealer of goods named Philon."
"At least, he appears to be a goods dealer. But behind the facade, he's a supplier of mercenaries."
"If you and your companion give him my name, I am certain he will tell you something that will be of use to you."
"Should you-"
"Should you really be telling me such things?"
"He owes me that much,"
"Philon procures goods, as well as the merchant marine reckless enough to carry them, for mercenaries. If fighting has awoken in the northlands, he should at least know where the money is flowing and from whom."
"I thank you for this unexpected compensation."
"I said nothing about this being compensation. I fully intend to fulfill my original promise, whatever your doubts."
"Still, given my state at the moment..."
"So you're saying it will take time?"
"No,"
"I've asked him to draw you the map in my place. I'm having the necessary materials collected. He's a good artist, so he ought to be able to draw a map from dictation."
"You mean-"
"Yes. He, too, traveled the land with his brushes."
"When I said I wanted him to draw the map in my stead, he was terribly enthusiastic about it. Of course"
"he may have been enthusiastic only about my request to be allowed to stay here whilst I earn traveling funds."
"I'm sure you're in a hurry, so I'll have the map sent to you as soon as it's finished. If I used a messenger on a fast horse, it may well be delivered to you as soon as you arrive in Lenos."
"Thank you, so much."
"You heard her,"
"Did I, then?"
"I still can't manage such a face."
"Worried your appeal is lessened by the demands you make?"
"I am a merchant, and a merchant's customers are never satisfied. If they were, they wouldn't need anything from the merchant. It'd be the end of the business,"
"Honest?"
"You'd know whether or not it was a lie, wouldn't you?"
"I'll believe you, just this once,"
"Is that so."
"Aye."
"If we were to spice up our traveling rations a bit, what would you like?"
New Convo:

"Whew... well, this ought to do it,"
"Given the coin value of how much I've made, I feel honestly bad that I'm only giving you this much."
"I thank you,"
"Regarding the letter Miss Fran requested, when it's finished, I'll have it sent to you on a fast horse."
"Oh, and one more thing,"
"I'll send it, as well."
"We'll be off, then,"
"Time is money,"
"Of course not, you fool,"
"You humans show your feelings on your face. We wolves show them with our fur. That I must curl my tail about Col every night lest he cry from the cold only makes it more so,"
"Is that so? It's so lovely that one such as I would never notice a flaw in it, so..."
"Is there nothing amusing we might play at?"
"There certainly are quite a few boats heading downriver,"
"When so many boats head downriver, you would think the number of boats left upriver decreases, and the waters downriver would be crowded. But it's not so - why do you suppose that is?"
"Huh?"
"Why do you suppose that is?"
"Hmmmm..."
"I-I know,"
"Oh?"
"A ship heading downriver is the same as a load of lumber, is it not?"
"Meaning?"
"Mm. Meaning that when the ships reach the sea, they're either broken up for lumber, or they continue on across the ocean. Coming from upriver, they satisfy a demand both for ships and for lumber itself, as well as transporting other goods. Three birds with one stone."
"How about that, eh?"
"Not even close,"
"The answer is that the ships are pulled back upriver. They go and come back. Obvious, isn't it?"
"The point is, the most complicated answer isn't always the right one,"
"Of course, depending on the season, sometimes what you suggested does happen. But in that case, it's usually a raft. And the riverbank here, see how it's so free of reeds and such? Since there's so much shipping traffic, and they have to pull all those ships back upriver, the banks are kept clear to make it easy for horses to pull the ropes attached to the ships."
"'Tis a pity, then, such a pity!"
"As we've so much fine wine, and all..."
"Mm. I suppose 'twould not be so bad to nestle myself in your bosom now, but..."
"I'm worried about that,"
"He hasn't said anything to you, either, then?"
"Nay. I know it started when he talked to that fool girl."
"That fool girl"
"I'm Holo, a proud wisewolf. Don't mistake me for some gossipy little bint."
"Fine, fine, all right! Sorry."
"Can he not rely upon me, then?"
"Meeting the right person can change you. Or would you prefer he stays a boy forever?"
"That's why I've kept quiet, isn't it?"
"Oh, indeed."
"But I'm no god."
"Oh, indeed,"
"You needn't bother."
"There, pull!"
"Hey, you two. You'd best make ready."
"Mm? Make ready?"
"I declare this fishing expedition concluded! By the charity of Lord Osborne, the remaining fish shall be given to the people!"
"Though you're not so angry this time,"
"a cheap fur"
"I can't go getting angry at every little slight. And anyway, fatigue has made my tail most unkempt, so I've no leg to stand on, really."
"When we arrive at the inn, I'll have the innkeeper make ready hot water and towels. You'll feel better after washing the dust off."
"And fine oil, too."
"if there's time to buy it."
"So, then, how long will we be staying, eh?"
"I'd say three or four days at the longest. We're just getting information. We've already got cold-weather gear, and we'll only need to buy a little extra food."
"Mm."
"We don't know which route we'll be taking, though. So long as it has a bit of traffic, a snowpack route will be fine. Otherwise, we'll need to find a good road. 32/224 The former will take us to the Debau Company - the latter, to Nyohhira."
"Col - do you know the town of Nyohhira?"
"The name only."
"It's an old town, with hot springs that gush up out of the ground. I've passed through it once - it was a curious place."
"Curious?"
"Yes. Despite being so far out in a foreign land, it's said that the highest-ranking clergy from all over the world gather there. And in hundreds of years, there's never once been a battle there."
"That's why so many people, suffering from the pain of this alwaysfighting world of ours, seem to think they're hiding the secret to eternal peace there."
"But there's no way the world is ever going to stop fighting, is there...?"
"That's true. A good soak in hot water can cure all sorts of sickness and injury, so everyone forgets about their troubled hearts. That's not going to stop the world from fighting."
"I 33/224 soaked in that water myself long ago, and now I remember how much I fought to cool off after it."
"The shopkeeper Miss Fran told us about is a former mercenary, she said. Hopefully he's had a nice soak and is feeling large of heart when we arrive."
"I'm rather hoping for a large inn,"
"I doubt old Arold's place is still in business. Hard to know whether we'll find a good inn or not."
"The place where I was held in hock was splendid,"
"Well, we'll ask around town."
"Do you know anyone there?"
"I have some other acquaintances, yes. I'll need to 34/224 contact someone to receive the map, and I'll ask them if they can recommend an inn."
"So you have some acquaintances, do you?"
"Yes, at a place called the Beast and Fish Tail."
"Mm? Oh, the shop where they had that peculiar rodent dish."
"You've certainly got some nerve."
"Huh?"
"Ah."
"Ah well, I'll soak myself thoroughly in the hot springs of Nyohhira, and forget my angered heart, won't I?"
"Hello, there!"
"Hm? Oh, you're the merchant from before."
"Yes, and my thanks."
"So, what profit are you chasing this time?"
"No, no, nothing like that. I've had my fill of chasing profit,"
"I wonder how many merchants I've heard say the same thing."
"You may be right."
"A merchant's heart is fickle. As are their excuses - I couldn't help myself. I'm through. I was out of my right mind."
"'Tis true, is it not?"
"I've seen the whole thing, all the way up to the sad tears and the swearing to go back to only good, honest business. Honestly, they're a pack of fools, merchants are."
"T-true enough, true enough. I've come here today because I wish to ask about something, that's all."
"And what might that be?"
"It's about the furs... Ah-!"
"Whew. Well, if that's what you're after, it's far too late now, eh?"
"No, nothing like that - it seems we'll be staying in this town again for a while, so I was hoping you could recommend a good inn."
"Oh, my,"
"How rude to ask me such a thing!"
"..."
"'Tis a joke, that obviously the best place to stay would be hers."
"Huh? O-oh!"
"Pfft!"
"Pffha-ha-ha-ha!"
"...?-?"
"Ha-ha-ha... Ah, but we shouldn't tease him too much."
"Yes, quite right. No wonder he seems so invulnerable - he's oblivious! Oh, goodness, but that was fun,"
"Food is best with salt, but salt alone is a distasteful thing. I've been foolish."
"Mm. Still, I must compliment your eye, for noticing how magnificent the cooking in question might be."
"If it's an inn you need, I recommend Sister Eunice's place on nunnery row. If you tell her my shop sent you there, you'll not be treated poorly."
"Ah, you have my thanks."
"Was that all you needed? If you need food. I'll make it and have it sent to Eunice's."
"Fine, fine, I can see you'd rather eat in a quiet room than here. I'll have it sent over,"
"It will take a bit of time, but it should arrive by sunset. Shall the house choose the menu, then?"
"Ah, er, yes, please. Also, there's another in our party outside. So a meal for three, then."
"Another?"
"Unfortunately, he's not a girl. It's a boy we picked up in our travels."
"My goodness. Perhaps I should go after him instead."
"Fine, fine!"
"Oh, that's right."
"Yes?"
"There should be a letter for me from Kerube arriving here soon, and it will be addressed to this tavern, so..."
"Oh, certainly. Understood. Kerube, you say? Who could it be, I wonder."
"It will be from the Hugues company, which deals in fine arts."
"Ah,"
"That piggish-looking fellow, eh? He sometimes visits for a meal - he goes on and on about how the sin of gluttony doesn't apply to the Fish Tail and eats a great mountain of food."
"But if it's all the same..."
"Huh?"
"If it's all the same, you'd rather receive a different sort of letter, wouldn't you?"
"Letters tend to be sent from distant places, so will that be all right?"
"Hm?"
"If you wouldn't mind me sending such a letter from a far-off land, I'd be happy to write and say that I long to eat the food here while it's still hot."
"I don't much like the idea of going far away to serve just one person. Better to stay here, where I can serve many."
"If I'd not dug you up, you'd've spent your whole life in the ground,"
"Quite so, my lady,"
"Where did they go?"
"To the church?"
"Aye. My nose was finding the scent of garlic and wine in the room rather tiresome, you see. The lad was begging me, so we went to 'morning prayers' or whatever they're called."
"Was it well attended?"
"Aye. It seemed they might not let us in at all, but one look at Col and I and they relented."
"Still, you must be in fine spirits, to venture so boldly into enemy territory."
"Aye. Col was so delighted, you see. Though my smile was a wry one, we went to the church, and I felt refreshed."
"How very like you, to share him like that."
"Unlike you, I am well aware of what is important in life."
"Meaning?"
"Meaning Col's happy face is more important to me than more trivial manners."
"So, when he begged you to come with him, you were even happier, you mean?"
"So the notion that he just ought to have been more honest from the beginning is just a foolish wandering merchant's simpleminded thinking, then?"
"Am I not a wisewolf in the end? I've my dignity to think of."
"It must be difficult,"
"'Tis difficult indeed."
"Would you be angry if I said I was excited to go to Yoitsu?"
"I would not. I myself would like to play at being a wise man, after all."
"Hn!"
"..."
"general store"
"Well, shall we?"
"I'll be counting on you, then. I haven't been able to hear a damned thing."
"Not with that face! You should've hired a handsomer fellow!"
"I used to be, but my old general was a rough one!"
"Oh ho, this fellow looks promising. Reckon he'll be of use!"
"Hm? Hmmm..."
"Bwa-ha-ha-ha! I don't think so, shopkeep! This one's no good. He's just a no-good merchant, waiting for his chance to snatch your treasures!"
"Still, you seem a splendid young fellow. Should we meet again, let's help each other out, eh?"
"I daresay he'd be an amusing male to share wine with sometime,"
"Well, now,"
"How can I be of service, my young merchant friend?"
"It's a shame about your timing, truly,"
"My timing?"
"Aye. Timing is the essence of success. Unfortunately, most of the assignments were worked out last week. If you plan to stay a good long while, you could leave your life in the hands of some lead-footed band, perhaps, but... do you plan to travel with those two? The heavens will punish you for that, surely."
"No, no, I've no intention of trying to supply any armies,"
"Nor have I come to offer services as a chaplain."
"That so? You'll pardon me. I've been so busy with work these days. I jumped to conclusions, clearly. But..."
"... If so, what brings you here? You certainly haven't come to buy wheat, have you?"
"general store."
"Fran Vonely sent me."
"So they're still alive, are they?"
"Just Miss Fran,"
"I see,"
"Though it may be providential, it still pains me to hear it. But Lady Fran is well, is she?"
"She sustained terrible injuries living up to her reputation... but she'll soon recover."
"So the three of you managed to live through a situation that asked some courage of her. My apologies, truly,"
"Let me introduce myself,"
"My name is Philon Zimgrundt. As the thirteenth heir of the Zimgrundt name, I am the master of the Zimgrundt General Store."
"Heh. It's been many a century since any of the Zimgrundt name went forth into battle. Some of my more considerate customers do me the honor of calling me a former mercenary, but it's through the grace of my ancestors who fought all across the world before settling to open this shop here that I'm able to operate. It's their great deeds that let me conduct this strange little business of money."
"I see,"
"The truth is, I'm hoping to learn about conditions in the northlands."
"The conditions,"
"Lady Fran certainly lent her name to a fellow with a strange 53/224 question. From your appearance, I wouldn't make you as a man who doesn't know the value of things."
"As you can probably tell from my two companions, my journey is a bit of a strange one."
"Indeed. However, 'conditions' could mean many things. Do you want to know about the movements of the people there? Or of goods? Or of coin?"
"People - and where they're headed."
"Where they're headed, eh...? Ah, I see. If I've misunderstood, I hope you'll forgive me,"
"You want to know where the attacks are happening, don't you?"
"Yes, that's right."
"Ah. I see. So that's why you'd use Lady Fran's name to ask a question of me."
"Still..."
"Yes...?"
"To have them both as your companions, you certainly can't be judged by your appearance."
"Huh?"
"My, my,"
"Was I wrong?"
"He's hardly so able a man,"
"Is that so. Still, you'd be surprised how great a general such a man can be."
"'Tis only because they're so busy minding everything around them, is it not?"
"Ha-ha-ha! Well, now. I've certainly got some peculiar guests today. If I make light of them, they'll get the best of me."
"Fine, then. I'll help you."
"-! My thanks to you!"
"I'm afraid I'll have to add the tiresome condition that you not speak of what I tell you to anyone else. So, where is it that you want to know about? Many mercenaries are hired through landlords. And the ones giving that money to those landowners-"
"The Debau Company,"
"Quite. However, the Debau Company is not of such a scale that it can operate on its own. They have the cooperation of the landlords. Most of the mercenaries they've hired are getting their provisions through me, and people in my business have good ties. I get information from other towns, from those in the same business. So... to be blunt, I'm more or less aware of which places in the northlands are safe and which aren't."
"The old name of the place we're looking for is Yoitsu."
"Yoitsu?"
"Sorry, I've not heard of it. Though if it's in an old story, I may have heard that."
"The Moon-Hunting Bear."
"Ah, yes. More than a few mercenary bands use a picture of it on their standards. Perhaps it's the name of a town or village destroyed by the great beast. I've forgotten where I heard this, but... since there are many mercenaries from the northlands, I might have heard it from one of them. I'm sorry I couldn't be of more help,"
"Actually,"
"we've asked Fran to draw us a map of the northlands, including Yoitsu. Once it arrives, we should know the current location of wherever Yoitsu was."
"You gained her trust so quickly-!"
"I see... I wouldn't mind having such a map myself! So then, you three. Have you anything else you'd like to ask?"
"In that case, what of the village of Pinu?"
"That I can tell you right off. It's close to a village that a parish in the east dispatched soldiers to, some years back. The region's thick with skilled hunters, some of whom joined bands here and there. For a major push into the hard north country, they would need a confident foothold, and that was one of the likely places for it. None of those men are stupid enough to destroy their own homes, and mercenaries are surprisingly respectful of the homes of their comrades. So for the time being, Pinu's safe."
"Ha-ha-ha, though I don't know how much use to you any of that is."
"No, thank you, truly,"
"So we'll talk again about Yoitsu when your map arrives, shall we?"
"It seems so, yes."
"Understood. Now then, have you arranged your lodging? There hasn't been much snow this year, so there are more travelers than 57/224 normal. Most places are full by now, and you may be unable to find accommodations."
"We've no worries on that count. The Beast and Fish Tail sent us to Eunice's inn."
"Oh ho. You're no ordinary traveling party, that's for sure,"
"It's no easy thing to get in the good graces of the barmaid there."
"The innkeeper at Eunice's place is a widower, you see. He's rather soft on that particular barmaid, so if she asks, he'll kick someone out just to open up a room for her."
"Well, it seems I wasn't much able to help you. Even if you'd needed a room, I don't know that I could've arranged it for you."
"Still, you've probably left an impression of someone who helped me a great deal."
"Quite so! I'd certainly like a copy of that map. I wonder how I might manage it..."
"In any case, once the map arrives, come visit again."
"I shall. And I'll see if I can't find other favor to ask of you, as well."
"By all means, please do."
"Well, then,"
"Good grief. So busy today!"
"I should think that's a good thing."
"So it is."
"The door's open!"
"Wah!"
"Oh. Here I was wondering who it could be, but it's you, Le Roi,"
"Ouch! My apologies, sir."
"Not at all. Are you all right?"
"Still, now you've come all the way out here, too, and your timing's no good, either,"
"Huh?"
"You heard the rumors of war and came here with a sackful of scriptures, am I right? Unfortunately, those who would've wanted them have already packed their things and headed north."
"Damn you, God! Have you any idea how I suffered to bring these here?!"
"Blame your own avarice before you lay responsibility at God's feet."
"Quite a coincidence."
"Indeed it is,"
"It has been a while, Miss Elsa."
"What, you two know each other?"
"He once came to my village's aid."
"Oh ho!"
"So you're from Tereo as well, then, sir?"
"No, I just happened to be passing through and was able to be of some small assistance."
"Oh ho, I see. My goodness."
"This is a general store, not a tavern. Might I ask you to celebrate your reunion elsewhere?"
"Ah, apologies!"
"And your companion appears to be quite tired. You ought to secure lodgings before venturing out again, hmm?"
"You're quite right, quite right indeed! We came here without even changing out of our travel clothes."
"Might you arrange a room for us?"
"You've bad timing."
"Wh- come now, Mr. Philon. Don't be so heartless! We don't need a fancy room, you know. I've asked at inns all over the city. I don't mind being put alongside my goods somewhere, but my companion"
"I can't let such a fate befall her, you see."
"Still, my storehouses and rooms are all packed full with goods. The apprentices are having to wedge themselves into the gaps to sleep. And if they don't work, there's no telling what they'll use their pent-up energy for."
"I can't allow harm to come to one of God's lambs in the night."
"I don't care what happens to me. But please, just for her..."
"It's for her sake that I am saying this."
"Oh, God! Please forgive this merciless man!"
"If you don't mind the room where we're staying..."
"Wha-"
"Oh! Oh, what a wonderful person! God's blessings will surely be upon your head...!"
"We have no means to repay you,"
"I believe they say good deeds done here on earth will store up wealth in heaven, do they not?"
"One cannot carry one's coin purse through the gates of heaven, after all."
"If so, I'd best make myself into a shape better suited to fit through, I should think."
"Of course, in this life, I'll expect what I lend to be repaid."
"We shall impose upon you, then,"
"Well, well, this certainly is a burden off my chest! Splendid, splendid!"
"I suppose I ought to help as well. If it's just you, sir, you may stay here,"
"There may well be others who come staggering drunkenly in, but as long as you don't mind them..."
"Of course not! Ah, God's will be done! Surely His blessings will be upon your head, Mr. Philon-"
"Displeased?"
"I wouldn't say I'm displeased,"
"So you've no problem at all, then?"
"I-I'm sorry...?"
"Just as you said, I've no problem at all."
"They're heading back to the inn room to tidy up ahead of us,"
"You've taught them well,"
"Is that so...?"
"I'm ready."
"Well, shall we go?"
"I leave myself in your care,"
New Convo:

"The reason I left the village?"
"Yes. To be honest, I just can't figure it out."
"I'm looking for someone,"
"Looking... for someone?"
"Not a specific person, though."
"I'm looking for someone who can enter the holy service of the Church."
"But-"
"Thanks to you, the flame of faith has been kindled in Tereo. Moreover, your incredible power destroyed Enberch's schemes. Now there are even people from Enberch who come all the way to our village to buy sweets."
"incredible power,"
"The people of Enberch do not know the details of our village. They would surely be surprised to learn I alone tend the church. Of course, the Enberch bishop's lips have been well sealed, but he will not behave himself forever."
"Ahem... excuse me. So I've come in search of someone who can take on this holy duty in our village. For such a task, I can hardly send mere letters out, hither and yon."
"You need to find someone who'll measure up to you, then?"
"Of course. My father, Father Franz, left the church in my care. I must find an individual worthy of that."
"That's the primary reason for my travels, but..."
"I've become aware of how truly ignorant of the world I am. I was hoping this journey would give me a chance to see more of the world."
"Mm,"
"That must have been a difficult decision to make, surely."
"Of course, I thought to give up on it many times, but I've had God's guidance all the way."
"That bookseller, you mean?"
"That's right."
"You seem to encounter the strangest people,"
"Apologies,"
"But I can see why you would think so,"
"I had only met him once before, but I knew he was a longtime acquaintance of Father Franz. And in Father's letters, it was written that this was a man I could trust in times of hardship. If Father trusted him, then I ought to trust him, too. No matter how silly or greedy he might appear to be."
"I would be lying if I said I hadn't had my own worries, but he's a very sincere man. Of course, there's no mistaking his avarice - but you might say that avarice is where his sincerity comes from."
"So what you mean is that he's after Father Franz's library, then,"
"There's no one like him in the village, you see. At first I was quite bewildered, but... then I realized there's no great difference between being faithful to your own avarice and being faithful to the teachings of God. He's tried everything he can think of to get me to tell him where Father Franz's library is - but always amicably."
"So that is his aim, and when I told him I was of a mind to travel to this town, he was only too happy to agree. The journey was difficult... if it had gone on much longer, I might have finally told him the library's location."
"All the great saints left their homes and journeyed, secluding themselves away in remote forests or deserts, and I finally understand why. Going out into the world for the first time, I have truly understood how weak humans are."
"Which is why I've finally been able to answer a question that's plagued me ever since you and your companions left my village."
"A question?"
"Yes. The question of why, when you have such power, you would choose even now to travel with a simple horse-drawn wagon."
"I've become painfully aware of just how powerless I am. Borrowing the power of my companion will not make that weakness disappear. So I try to rely on my own abilities. Or..."
"... Or to ask for her help in addition to my strengths. Don't try to fill a small bowl with a large amount - every merchant knows this,"
"Whenever I've embarrassed myself, it's because I broke this rule."
"They say the world is vast, and it's true."
"I give thanks to God that we have been able to meet again."
"Miss, if you're having trouble believing it, would you like to see the many letters of permission from successive bishops we've had?"
"No... that's all right. The world is a large place,"
"Mm... Mmph..."
"S-so spicy..."
"Hah, that's because it's meant to go with wine. Here, try this."
"The Angel Physician,"
"What's this...?"
"Clams fried in butter. They're from the port town downriver, hauled up still in the shell. You can even eat them raw."
"If the tail's too strongly spiced for you, you might find it's just right for putting on a bit of bread. The cooking here is excellent, but the bread is, unfortunately, a tad-"
"The bread is unfortunately a tad... expensive,"
"The larger world does have all sorts of food,"
"But the surprises are only so frequent when you're just starting out. Every day dizzied me when I'd first set out from my home village, but after a month of journeying, I had the face of a seasoned traveler."
"Mmph... Mm..."
"Mm?"
"..."
"Such terrible manners,"
"The same goes for you,"
"In my village, in times like these, we remind people that they oughtn't eat like thieves."
"This is normal for travelers."
"Apologies,"
"We have a tendency toward unrefined mealtimes, I'm afraid."
"It- it's all right."
"I give my thanks for this incredible meal. I wish that I could offer something in return, but as you can see, I am a traveler from an impoverished village. Yet I do have something."
"I could teach you better table manners."
"Do not worry. There were people in my village who were quite terrible at learning things, but even they got the knack of it."
"The same goes for you."
"Wha... just who do you think I-"
"It's the same for everyone. And with that attitude, you ought to be able to behave properly. There's simply no excuse."
"These dishes are so splendid, after all. If you eat them properly, they'll be even more delicious."
"Ah... er..."
"I-if you please, then."
"Very well,"
"When I eat that slowly, it seems like the hot food gets cold before I can finish..."
"But in exchange, you get friends to eat with. Even if it's a little cooler, it's still just as tasty."
"Anyway, just consider that there's nothing to lose in learning such things. After all, it was free,"
"Right!"
"You ought to teach him a thing or two yourself,"
"Hardly. I'm a mere beast, after all."
"So long as he enjoys himself, I thought,"
"Col's at that age, you know. Learning itself is fun for him."
"You look as though you've had your favorite toy taken from you,"
"If this is how you are with Col, I dare not imagine what would happen if I were taken, too."
"I'm a wisewolf, you fool."
"Not even the village elder sleeps on a bed so fine!"
"I'd like a wheel of cheese! How much?"
"That one, for example,"
"Ah... I suppose you arrived yesterday or today, eh?"
"I arrived the day before last. Heading even farther north."
"I see. Bad luck, then."
"It's not neglect that there are no prices out. These have all sold."
"That one, this one, and this one here, too, are all being taken away today. It's good to have the rush in business, but it's dizzying, too. And I've got to endure the sad faces of all the unlucky travelers, too."
"Well, it's nice that business is good."
"Aye... the business came back all of a sudden, truly. I suppose it's something like the weather. When it's nice out, people come and shop. Don't you think?"
"I quite agree. Incidentally, is tomorrow's cheese also spoken for? Or the day after's?"
"Our cheese goes well with wine, though. The taverns keep quite a stock on hand."
"Huh?"
"My thanks to you. I'll give that a try this evening, then,"
"Aye, you do that. Oh, and-!"
"It's going to be much the same for anything else you want to buy. Don't bother looking at the shops - it's the storehouses you'll want to peek in."
"It's the storehouses you'll want to peek in"
"Goodness, you're early today,"
"Quite. Haste can be a virtue, after all."
"So, what profit is it you're chasing this time, eh?"
"Nothing like that. I was hoping you'd let me buy a little from you."
"If taverns start selling goods, the town would be in chaos. Why not go to the marketplace? I'm a little busy here."
"I'm sure you are, if you're planning to use all of this in your cooking."
"These are extra supplies, in case of hardship."
"I'll bet they are,"
"I'll pay in cash. Gold coin, if you like. Or"
"would smaller coins be better?"
"I see,"
"I see how it is. As soon as you figured things out, you came straight here. Where'd you get that idea, I wonder?"
"The value of coin is rising, isn't it?"
"But these truly are emergency supplies."
"I'm sure they are,"
"Since the riot, it's like the money's dried up from the town. There's no money anywhere you go. It vanished like smoke. Even if you allow that many trades happen on credit, you still need small coins. We're in real trouble,"
"They say anything scarce becomes dear,"
"There's too much cash in the hands of the fur dealers. But because coin shortage is a problem for any town, it's not as though we can import some coppers. And now, even a dull copper is starting to look as brilliant as any gold."
"And as a tavern, you can easily avoid any accusations that you're speculating. Very clever."
"Too high,"
"Feel free to try your luck in the marketplace."
"Understood. But I'll be expecting quality."
"Heh. That's a compromise I can make."
"Still, I'm a bit surprised,"
"Oh?"
"That you'd come alone."
"I've come alone more times than not."
"I suppose that's true,"
"My companion told me not to think that a jewel can shine alone, though."
"So, will the next few days be all right?"
"Yes, if you please."
"And it would be best if you could take delivery in the morning, although not too early. We're a tavern, after all."
"Understood. Not too late, not too early."
"Timing is of the essence, after all."
"Has the letter come yet?"
"Speaking of timing, no, not yet. If it's urgent, I'll have it sent to your inn once it arrives."
"If you please,"
"Well, then,"
"So he really is out of business, eh?"
"... How absurd."
"Huh?"
"So will that all be quite all right?"
"Yes, yes. Though the remaining goods will need to be inspected."
"I was told by the former owner that they could be disposed of."
"No, that won't do at all. They were probably used for smuggling. We'll consider disposal after they've been inspected."
"Will sir come by the trading company later? If you've time, I've just taken delivery of a fine vintage..."
"No, I really must return to my own company. I've got an engagement to attend to, so if you'll excuse me."
"Well, then,"
"Well, Mr. Kraft Lawrence! I thought it'd be quite a while before I saw you again."
"And here I was sad to think the day would never come at all."
"Heh. Not every successful man is an ambitious one."
"I'd welcome such good fortune."
"Well, men such as us must treasure our connections. If you've time, do come visit the company. We've got a fine vintage on hand."
"Well, I'll be off, then,"
"I could never manage it."
"Now, then,"
"Such food isn't nearly enough!"
"I'm not sure eating luxurious food every day is such a good thing,"
"Oh, so you're going to lecture me on this point as well, eh?"
"... I get it, I get it. Don't be so angry."
"She just loves to flaunt all her so-called knowledge, lecturing Col on this and that all the way to the church and all the way back. And who was it that saved that village, hmm? It was me!"
"And that's not the only part of my territory she's ruined! This is all because you said you'd put her up in our room! Are you even listening to me?"
"I'm listening,"
"Is something amusing to you?"
"Oh yes, quite amusing,"
"I never thought I would see a wisewolf rage like this."
"Come now, don't be so angry."
"I wasn't making fun of you."
"I wasn't making fun of you."
"So what, then?"
"I just thought it might be nice for you not to act the wisewolf,"
"Though it is a bit silly of you to be so worked up over worries that your dear Col might be taken from you,"
"The truth is, you want to be even more selfish, don't you?"
"No one would think less of you for being envious or for showing that childish attachment. This isn't your wheat fields. Nobody here is worshiping you."
"You don't need to force yourself to simply endure things anymore. At the very least, I'm not thinking of you as some kind of god."
"So why don't you stop taking out on me the frustration of enduring all that alone, and just be a little more honest? I feel like that's more of what a wisewolf would do-"
"Ah..."
"After all that talk, this is all it takes to fluster you? You're rather full of yourself,"
"Hmph,"
"I hardly need you to tell me such things. I'm perfectly aware of them."
"... If so-"
"If so?"
"If so, I ought to just act as I wish, you say? Just throw all my pride and wisdom as a wisewolf aside?"
"I have my own things to consider, in my own way. But I'm not so clever as that. You want me to be honest here, polite there, but I simply cannot. And anyway,"
"you're only asking what would be most convenient for you."
"-!"
"You know that's not true,"
"Truly?"
"Truly,"
"You are quite daring, though,"
"Huh?"
"Telling me to be more honest. Here and now, of all places."
"You may as well have just set me upon them like a dog."
"Ah-"
"N-no, that's not what I-"
"So what did you mean?"
"... If I must choose between you doing whatever you wish or forcing yourself to simply endure, then..."
"I'd rather the former."
"You're being tricky with your words again."
"I think you're much more charming when you're honest and free to do as you like."
"I think you're much more charming when you're forcing yourself."
"I suppose I can't beat an honorable wisewolf."
"Heh."
"You're the one at fault for this, you know,"
"Huh?"
"No matter what happens after this, I'll be to blame for none of it."
"Wait..."
"'Twas a jest, you fool!"
"Still, 'tis well for once, in such a long life, not to be thinking on past and future."
New Convo:

"He's done splendidly. And eaten enough for that, to be sure,"
"Quite, and I'm always having to bargain with him over how much I have to feed him to get him to walk a few more steps."
"I see. So you get plenty of negotiation practice while out on the road, eh?"
"And there's no need to let him eat too much."
"Ah, so you'll have a better place to bargain from on your last day, eh?"
"I'll leave him to you for the next few days."
"It's always a pleasure to take care of a fine horse."
"I suppose that's most of the major preparations, then,"
"Talking about the state of the world with him, were you?"
"Mm? Oh, aye. We've both been put up as collateral before, so we were simply commiserating."
"So, what next? Foodstuffs, mayhaps?"
"I've already taken care of our food. All that's left is fuel, money changing, and perhaps I ought to have my knife sharpened. Anyway, there's nothing left of much interest to you."
"Still, I think it might be better to wait on fuel and money changing until the map arrives, and we know exactly where we're going. What say you?"
"Mm? Mm. I was thinking of wandering about a bit just to kill some time, but..."
"let's return to the inn and prepare for another battle!"
"Are you thinking of interfering in what I've set my mind to, hmm?"
"What's wrong?"
"Mr. Lawrence!"
"Please come alone"
"Go on in without me."
"Make it quick,"
"Will you be all right on your own?"
"What might be the matter?"
"Yes, well, it's no great thing..."
"You have connections with the Delink Company, yes?"
"Were you following me?"
"Yes. Well, Sir Eringin, actually."
"Might I ask why?"
"I want to borrow money."
"I was following him around, hoping for some opportunity to approach him, when I happened to run into what I saw."
"They're a troublesome lot, that company. Borrowing money from them, it's..."
"I know. I've done occasional business in this town myself. I'm well aware of what sort of company they are."
"But that's the sort of company I want to borrow from, if I can."
"That sort of company?"
"Yes. The sort that doesn't care about politics, that's unmoved by faith. That pursues only profit. I can borrow only from such a place. Of course..."
"... if there's somewhere else that will lend me a thousand silver pieces with no questions asked, that's a different story."
"It's true I'm passingly acquainted with the Delink Company, but I don't think they trust me so much that I could get them on board with anything suspicious..."
"I'll pay you three hundred trenni,"
"I'm through risking my life for money."
"I heard from Philon that you're heading north."
"-!"
"There's 114/224 something the chain makers say. A chain can't be stronger than its weakest link."
"I'm quite sure that nice people with strong feelings about the northlands will be willing to lend more than a little aid in what I'm trying to do."
"So what is it... you plan to buy with this money?"
"A forbidden book."
"A forbidden book containing knowledge of banned arts. That's what I aim to buy."
"Alchemy, then?"
"A mining technique."
"I imagine it would be quite bad if the Debau Company got their hands on it first."
"Let's hear the details,"
"I look forward to your reply,"
"There was an old abbey there."
"Can't blame me for finding the story a little too perfect,"
"..."
"Once you hear, you want to do something about it"
"... What are you doing?"
"Don't look sideways,"
"Mm. Putting your fur in proper order makes you a different lad."
"It will just be mussed again once he sleeps, so I don't see how there's much meaning in it."
"..."
"No matter how fine the wine, if it's put in an old, tattered wineskin, it will break and spill. While looking fine isn't the most important thing, a container needs to be as sturdy as it possibly can be."
"Of course you can't simply leave your hair a mess, but that's easier to put in order than your clothing. And more important even than clothes are your bearing and presence. Your manner of speaking, your etiquette - these all must be good. Of course, compared with strong faith, even that is an unsteady thing. But on that count, I don't think we need worry."
"manners"
"I've never had my hair combed before,"
"It felt really nice."
"Mm, did it, then? Well, speak up whenever you've been drilled too hard and need a rest."
"Still,"
"You'll make a good male, aye."
"So long as he follows my instruction, that prediction will indeed come true,"
"Now, then, let's hear what new foolishness this fool has brought to us, eh?"
"A fool's errand that could only be the result of God's mistake,"
"Well, then, ours must be a nasty God indeed."
"Those who believe so only reveal their own impoverished hearts."
"So, might I perhaps discuss the situation with you?"
"Accompanying him is at least feasible. But doing so will bring me to the limit of my time. You would have to go on to Yoitsu on your own."
"We have no choice but to take the fruitful path,"
"You mean-"
"Your promise to me was that you would take me to Yoitsu. So long as you provide me true directions there, I consider that fulfillment of the promise. Whether or not you come with me is a matter of sentiment only."
"But there was another, wasn't there?"
"Another?"
"You know that,"
"I have a debt to you. Do you remember? You were terrible about it. You said you'd follow me to the ends of the earth to get it from me, you did. Such an avaricious merchant you are."
"Did you truly...!"
"No, there were circumstances..."
"Mm. Still, if the profit from this pays off that debt, then surely even the stubbornest man or god would forgive it, eh?"
"Oh, God, please forgive me my powerlessness."
"So, then - at least ten days by wagon, you said? Well, with enough good food and wine, I think I can enjoy myself for that long,"
"Come, now that it's decided, you can accept this fellow's proposition. If you miss your chance, 'twill be a sad state of affairs indeed. You're always saying you're a merchant - go make some easy profit, eh?"
"You needn't worry about me so."
"You're right. Might as well go out with a flourish, eh?"
"Must you always be so gloomy?"
"Huh?"
"evening"
"Huh? You're not coming?"
"I'm a wisewolf. What need have I to run around for such trivial affairs?"
"You'll stay and mind the room with me, won't you, lad?"
"Good point. Don't open the door for strangers, don't order any food, and if you go anywhere, be sure to tell the innkeeper. I can leave you to mind Holo, can't I?"
"I accept your proposal."
"I thought that I had lost God's favor a second time. I was about to give up."
"Quite a surprise. My instincts led me wrong."
"To think, a man with a woman and child with him would ignore such danger."
"I imagine this will be the last time,"
"I've heard the same thing from the fighters that come through my shop."
"Still, I'm truly thankful. I tried to get Mr. Philon here to listen to me, but he'd have none of it."
"Don't be stupid. I already trade with mercenaries. If someone saw me making a deal with the slavers at the Delink Company, what then? You wouldn't have to be very devout to wonder what sort of evil business I was up to."
"We've nothing to fear on that count."
"Still, I'm truly grateful. I'm lucky you decided the way you did."
"All I can be responsible for is mediating with the Delink Company. I have no idea whether they'll agree."
"They won't agree - they'll be made to agree."
"I'm very confident in the collateral, after all."
"By the way, just between you and me, we may end up getting ahead of Mr. Philon."
"I had no idea. How novel."
"Do you mind talking here?"
"Near the capital of Ploania, Endima, there's a town called Kieschen. The book is with a trading company there."
"My job as a bookseller is to use my contacts to know the trends among book collectors. Using those contacts, I've worked out the location of every single book written in the desert country language."
"I'm surprised you've never been accused of heresy,"
"To catch a snake, use a serpent. The inspector telling you the wine's been adulterated is the one drinking it down. That's what I'm getting at."
"I see."
"My intuition, at least based on what I was able to learn this past summer, is that it's unlikely that the trading company has realized the true value of the book. The master of the company is a great lover of adventure tales, especially thick histories. A traveling entertainer I know told me as much in the postscript of a letter and said he acquired the book as part of a big lot of those adventure stories. If he hasn't realized what it's worth, it's probably sitting in a long line of books waiting to be translated."
"In order to buy the book, we have to solve two problems. One is how to buy it. The other is how to get the money there."
"As for the first, we'll surely have to go to the town ourselves. It's not as though we have a branch company or a trusted underling we can send on our behalf."
"As someone who makes the greater part of his living on his own feet, I quite agree."
"As for the second problem, a money order seems appropriate."
"I quite agree. And then we needn't worry about one another running off with the money on the way,"
"The problem is whether such a large money order can actually be cashed. We'll be in a bind if we travel all the way out there, only to find we can't turn it back into coin."
"On that count, we can hope to get confirmation from the Delink Company. But in order to spread the risk around, it seems like having the order split up among several companies would be good. If Kieschen is close to Endima, we could also include some companies in the capital. The Delink Company ought to have relationships with many of them, after all."
"You're quite right. It seems we're in agreement on the broad strokes of this plan, Mr. Lawrence."
"I once thought in all seriousness that I would never again involve myself with the Delink Company."
"I've thought similar things upon many a hungover morning."
"I prefer to get the most unpleasant business sorted out first, personally."
"Is that so? I myself always eat my favorite food first."
"Oh, by the way,"
"If I hadn't agreed to talk to the Delink Company, what would you have done?"
"If he told you, he'd never get to talk to you again, you see,"
"What a happy development, that you'd finally take me up on my offer of wine,"
"And I see you've brought a friend."
"Do have a seat,"
"I notice that you're alone today."
"Indeed. We don't normally gather except to make a 'purchase.' As a rule, we only allow people we know into this room."
"I'm honored, then."
"There's no need to feel honored. I've heard about what happened in Kerube,"
"All it takes for men like us to live on is to adhere to a few simple principles. One of those is to know everything we can about the individuals with whom we share a connection. When it comes time to expand our business, we simply follow that connection."
"Heh. Seems you decided not to show your fangs today, though,"
"Have more confidence, Mr. Lawrence. You surprised us once before, and you survived that woman's plans. Moreover, I hear that once you arrived downriver, you rather brilliantly got your revenge. It would be incorrect of you to either underestimate yourself or overestimate us. The only difference between us is the choice of weapons."
"sir"
"My thanks to you for saying so,"
"Now, then. Tell me your business."
"A forbidden book of knowledge?"
"I believe it is a copy of a book that was banned thirty-four years ago at the second Remenon Ecumenical Council. The original was burned. The author was confined, and that's where the official record ends. Among booksellers like me, there's a rumor that an apprentice of his escaped with a rough draft of the book and made a copy. But there's been no way to verify that, and I've heard of countless swindlers using the story to their own ends."
"But this time is different?"
"Yes. As I've just explained."
"Mr. Lawrence, you've no notion of how much of this story is true. Correct?"
"Yes."
"Given the particulars, it ought to be regarded with suspicion. For you to make this introduction... you understand what that means, do you not?"
"I've heard from sources I trust of this man's tenacity."
"This isn't about money, is it?"
"I am deeply attached to the northlands,"
"For someone who does business like mine, that's a terrible thing to hear."
"But let us leave such agonizing to the philosophers and righteousness to the clergy. Our role is to fill the needs of others. So my question to you is: Whose need are you fulfilling, Mr. Le Roi?"
"There is a man, Lord Nicholas of the Raondille duchy. If a book is not forbidden, he... he has no lust for it."
"Ahem. Apologies. You were saying, this Sir Nicholas."
"Yes."
"Here in our customer list - it's all up here, of course - there's no such person."
"Setting aside whether or not such an individual actually exists..."
"How much profit do you expect to make?"
"In lumione gold,"
"I expect to sell it for one hundred and twenty pieces."
"I've heard the mantle of the Queen of Alain was about that much."
"This marketplace is filled with pride and supposition, but from what I've learned, the alchemist Aran Mihail's The Heart of Gods and Iron sold for a hundred lumione. I do not think this will fetch less than that."
"And the value of the book you've brought as collateral?"
"If you show it to a first-rate bookseller, you'll easily get thirty gold pieces."
"I can lend you eighty lumione. That will be enough, I trust?"
"That will be enough."
"However, regardless of whether your purchase goes well or not, we're charging a commission of twenty lumione."
"And there's a condition."
"Wha-!"
"Our business is not unlike a sort of gambling. Luck can be very instrumental. If at all possible, we would like to ride the winning horse while sitting in these very chairs."
"The condition is that you go with this man to make the purchase. You will watch, and listen, and if there are no problems, we will lend the money. That is the condition."
"Any complaints?"
"Not at all,"
"Still, it'll be a tiresome journey all the way out there and back, so I'll send someone with you,"
"We'll issue a money order to several companies we deal with there, with a proviso that all three of you must be there to collect the coin."
"Ah, that's right. It may be pointless to say so, but the man I'm sending with you has my utmost trust. And the companies in Kieschen where you'll redeem the money order all have large debts to us."
"Still,"
"When you refer to the company in Kieschen, do you mean them?"
"The master there has a great fondness for the desert nations."
"I've introduced him to many lovely dark-skinned ladies. So... he's the one, eh?"
"Oh, worry not."
"It's our custom to leave unfamiliar business in the hands of those better suited to it."
"... Surely no marquis or count could be so terrible,"
"Well, the town officials call him 'sir.'"
"If a man like him had a formal title, he'd rule the country. What a horrifying thought."
"But we've made the deal."
"I may not be worth much, but I'll do what I can,"
"Ha-ha-ha! What are you saying? If you hadn't been there with me, I would've suffocated! I'll be borrowing your knowledge, too. I'm paying you three hundred silver pieces, after all!"
"Now then, let's go somewhere to celebrate! My throat is dry from nerves."
"I'm sorry, but..."
"Ah, of course. Well, it's not like we won't be sleeping and eating together quite a lot soon enough. Perhaps we'll avoid quarreling if we don't see each other's face too much until then,"
"Well then, I bid you good night!"
"You-"
"Don't tell me... were you there the whole time?"
"..."
"Ah well, anyway, let's get into a shop somewhere - and anyway, what were you doing out in this cold?"
"I-I thought you might be deceived, and I..."
"You were worried about me? That doesn't mean you should stand outside..."
"Ah, there's a stall there. Wait just a bit."
"I swear,"
"Here, drink."
"Your tail,"
"Not too much!"
"Is that..."
"I'm a fool, aren't I?"
"They arrived a bit after you went out. But..."
"This is what you searched for on my behalf. It didn't seem right for just me and Col to look at them. To say nothing of that blockhead."
"I thought,"
"that it would be fitting to look at it with you."
"You are quite the fool, yes."
"You haven't opened them yet?"
"I did hold them up to the sun many times, trying to see through."
"Who should open them?"
"Me."
"... is what I would want to say, but there are two letters here. If I look at one of them, I fear I may collapse into weeping again."
"But the negotiations went well, did they?"
"Weren't you listening?"
"I could not hear,"
"But I know the outcome."
"That meat bun of a man's face was so pleased, so the negotiations must have been a success. But your face was not so happy. What might have caused that, I wonder?"
"Ugh,"
"You hoped that the negotiations would fail and that you'd be able to go to Yoitsu with me."
"And if you'd lost your chance for profit and brought disaster to Yoitsu, when then? No, that is not even the problem. What bothers me 151/224 can be expressed quite completely thus: You're even more of a maiden than I!"
"... Can't you at least call me 'sentimental'?"
"Hmph!"
"There are good sentiments and bad sentiments, you know."
"Come, now,"
"Hm?"
"What's wrong?"
"Even if you cannot go with me... can we not at least read this together?"
"All right,"
"Oh ho."
"There it is,"
"Oh, 'tis a real place after all."
"I never actually thought that we'd find it."
"Ask and ye shall receive."
"If a god once worshiped by humans says it, it's certainly captured a sort of truth."
"If it's given you that sort of optimism, then our work has succeeded."
"Hey,"
"Thank you."
"I've been stabbed, beaten, and nearly bankrupted."
"Mm?"
"And after all that, this is my reward?"
"Are you dissatisfied, then?"
"Certainly not."
"Mm. 'Tis well, then."
"'Twould be awful to lose it. You should hold it."
"Unfortunately, both my hands are full."
"I'll take charge of this,"
"Fine, fine."
"So, did you all eat dinner?"
"Your instinct for mood is truly... ah, well, I suppose nothing can be done about it."
"I do not believe they've eaten. That hardhead is so tiresomely dutiful about such things, after all."
"Mm?"
"This way's shorter. We'll stop by a tavern on the way and get some food. I'm fairly sure if we follow this street, we'll come out near the Beast and Fish Tail."
"Aye. Make sure to buy me some more strong wine."
"Why did I choose Le Roi?"
"You wish to come to Yoitsu with me so much, do you?"
"I do."
"Heh. We've just terrible timing, you and I."
"...?"
"I've given it much thought, and I believe you must go after the book. I said it, did I not? We must take the fruitful path."
"Come, now. How many of us are traveling?"
"... Three of us."
"And what does the lad stand to gain from going to Yoitsu?"
"Wwell... but..."
"Col came upon us in the course of his own travels. He even set aside his own goals for that. He's a stronghearted pup, but a pup is still a pup. There is no deep reason for him to be traveling with us. He just needed to rest his injured wings. That's all."
"It was back in Winfiel, perhaps. Ever since seeing that fool Huskins, he's been thinking about it, it seems."
"Huskins?"
"Aye. Thinking about what he ought to do for the sake of his own town. The pup remembered how he'd set that thinking aside, in order to give himself time to rest and heal."
"I'm hardly one to talk, but your face tells me you never even noticed, did you?"
"Ugh..."
"Honestly... And then there was this last adventure up in the snowy mountains. He saw how Fran lived, and it woke him from his slumber. She seemed ridiculous to a wisewolf like me, but her straightforward way of living must have been so refreshing to him. Huskins was so old that even his methods were gloomy, but then there was the girl Fran, as beautiful and sharp as ice."
"Hmph. And then along came that hard-headed girl."
"And the Church in this town plays a role in this, too. For this was the first time he saw a grand cathedral. An organization powerful enough to build such a thing could surely protect his home, he realized,"
"At the very least there's profit in it, and that dumpling head will go south, aye? She ought to take the lad with her. As much as her hardheadedness makes me ill, she's perfect for Col. Perhaps he'll even end up settling down in that village church of hers."
"I've a thought,"
"Live long enough and you realize time is terribly long, and one's hopes so rarely come true. Just look at the girl who made that map for us, Fran. Even with all her resolve, it doesn't seem likely she'll die with a smile on her face."
"We should live with smiles on our faces, I think. That way when we meet again, we'll be smiling."
"It's the same in business."
"Hm?"
"'Profit even from loss,' they say,"
"Ah,"
New Convo:

"Now then, about what we'll do next,"
"We'll make preparations today and tomorrow, and so leave the day after tomorrow at the earliest. Today, I'll first go to Mr. Philon's place and work some details out with him and Mr. Le Roi."
"It would be good if you came along, too, Miss Elsa, and talked about your own plans for what's to come."
"Very well. I need to send a letter to the village as well, so I'll ask their help in that."
"And what will you do?"
"So long as you don't mind me creating new legends about a giant wolf, I've nothing much else to do."
"So long as you don't mind me speaking as though I know the truth of the legend,"
"Still, 'twould be boring to stay here alone."
"Then it's settled."
"... Well, then."
"Today I've only got one more troop coming by. When things are bad, it'll be ten or twenty in a single day,"
"So, many mercenaries come through?"
"The bills are always made out to some big lord somewhere. If you're well-known and have a lot of territory, you can turn a hefty profit buying in one place and selling it off elsewhere."
"So, then, what can I do for my extended family here."
"The map from Miss Fran has arrived,"
"Oh, that's wonderful!"
"So about the Tolkien region."
"Ah, there's a nice place,"
"Bit large, though."
"There was a little village there. Less a village, really, than a group of shelters for woodsmen and hunters to stay in."
"And the name?"
"It didn't have a name. Isn't really the kind of place you give a name. Did someone tell you they were born in Tolkien?"
"For people from around here, the name Tolkien doesn't mean much more than deep forests and mountains. Whoever it was ought to be proud they were born in such grand wilderness, I'd say."
"Are the forests and mountains there yet bountiful?"
"Absurdly so. The word is that the deer are huge."
"And wolves?"
"Wolves?"
"The area's thick with fierce wolves."
"Many of the mercenaries imagine themselves to be descended from wolves. And if you did have an ancestor among the wolves of Tolkien, I'm sure it would make you braver on the battlefield."
"Are you...?"
"In any case, you're headed to Kieschen, yes? Or will some of you remain here or maybe make for Tolkien?"
"We plan to go to Kieschen. Would you tell us the way to Tolkien from there? Unless you think we'd be better served by asking once we arrive in Kieschen."
"Between Kieschen and the Tolkien region there's a path called the fur road. It's a common enough name, but it's the most important and profitable path for the fur trade in the area. It ought to be passable so long as it's not snowed in. On the way, you'll probably run into the territory of the Bruner mercenary band. I'll write you an introduction letter. If anything happens, you'll never find a more reliable band."
"My thanks,"
"And the two there? One was from Pinu, as I recall."
"No, I have business with Le Roi,"
"I'm quite confident that anything he can do, I can do as well."
"Is that so? In that case, I'd like to send a letter."
"Ah, certainly,"
"I've pen and paper. If you can't write, I'm happy to take your dictation."
"That won't be necessary. But I'm sorry to say I have no money."
"I'll send the bill for the paper to Le Roi. That's no problem at all."
"If you please."
"Once you find something, everything else becomes so clear,"
"Aye, now that we know our destination... all that's left is to point ourselves there and put one foot in front of the other."
"Simple and clear,"
"Mm. Nothing to hesitate over."
"Still, relaxing in town like this makes one reluctant to start traveling again,"
"With that reasoning, I'd have to give it serious thought."
"... Where did they go?"
"I gave them a few coppers and they went off to the docks. Would you like to go as well, Miss Elsa?"
"Where did Mr. Philon go?"
"No idea. I seem to remember him standing up from the table, but..."
"Seems like we ought not to leave, then,"
"... Yes, that's true. But, er..."
"Yes?"
"Might I go outside to take some fresh air?"
"Kieschen, eh?"
"A good place for good-byes."
"Oh, has the holy sister finished her writing?"
"She seemed to be having quite a bit of trouble with it."
"Hah. That's not such a bad thing."
"I can't imagine there are many happy people who are well accustomed to writing letters to their loved ones. Wouldn't you say?"
"True enough. You want to be close to the people you love."
"So, I couldn't help but be a little interested,"
"So I went and talked to the Delink Company myself."
"Anyhow, it turns out I got a hit."
"... A hit?"
"My company supplies mercenary troops, and I act as a sort of agent for them at times as well. The Delink Company is the opposite. There was nothing in my ledger about any mercenaries heading for Tolkien, so I thought there might be in theirs."
"Even if a troop winds up taking prisoners of war, depending on where it happens, they'll be turned away at the gates. So when there's a rumor of war, they'll talk to companies ahead of time."
"Meaning?"
"Meaning that in all likelihood, there's going to be a battle for control of the Tolkien region."
"But I have no idea what the goal is. It's just thick forests and endless mountain steppe. There are barely any villages worth naming. Or maybe they're thinking that's the perfect place to source slaves. Or else..."
"They've struck a lode of ore."
"Of course, I might be overthinking things. All the Delink Company said was that they'd received word from a mercenary troop that they might be bringing prisoners down from Tolkien."
"Come to think of it, I think the mercenary troop in question has a wolf on its standard."
"A wolf?"
"It had a rather strange name. It's not a big troop, but it's been around for a long time. What was it...?"
"The Myuri mercenary band."
"Myuri."
"They're a small band, but I've heard they're well disciplined. Their leader's especially clever, it's said. I've never supplied them, though, so I only know the name."
"Anyway, I thought this might worry your companion. Shall I try to find more information?"
"The world does not always go as one would wish."
"You're right about that,"
"Come, we've brought gifts!"
"Look, we've found today's lunch!"
"Magnificent, aren't they? We were wandering around the docks when we came upon some fool who'd tipped over a great barrel. Inside were all these eels, and they were scattered around like windblown soot!"
"Don't tell me you stole these."
"Fool! We were asked to help catch them, and this is our reward! I was the best at catching them. Wasn't I?"
"Well... still, you ought to change your clothes,"
"Mm? Oh, aye. I am a bit damp. Well, I'll leave the preparation to you. Come, Col!"
"Ha-ha-ha-ha!"
"Goodness, but you're amusing guests indeed! Don't worry, we'll make ready some hot water and handle the preparation."
"R-really?"
"If you walk around outside like that you'll catch cold. I'll have the lads heat a bath. As far as a change of clothes goes, hmm..."
"I can get a change of clothes from the inn."
"Hm? Oh well, let's do that, then. In the meantime, we'll deal with these eels. They'll make for an unexpectedly grand lunch!"
"Well, then, I'm off to the inn,"
"I'm coming, too!"
"I have some spare clothes I can lend you,"
"I have been thinking,"
"Can I be of any use to you?"
"Huh?"
"Can I be of any use to you? To all of you?"
"Especially you - I know you don't want to go to Kieschen. Am I wrong?"
"That's a surprising offer."
"It is not at all surprising."
"It is surprising,"
"I owe you a debt, you see,"
"I'm very grateful that you would offer,"
"I see..."
"Might I ask why you offer?"
"First, I've been turned away by the church here."
"The second reason is... that we're alike."
"Alike?"
"Our true feelings are obvious, yet we both insist on putting on such great facades of responsibility."
"I left my village with just that facade. I can't say I don't have experience with it,"
"But finding a priest for your village is a proper reason, isn't it?"
"It is. And yet..."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"This is something I should confess only to God."
"Do not worry. I have every intention of reaching the kingdom of heaven, so I'll pass your message along."
"The reason I am searching for a priest to take charge of the church in my village is because I do not wish to hold the position."
"And?"
"Despite my position, I've had a faint wish."
"If possible, my wish is to... someday make Evan my-"
"You should speak the rest of that sentence not to me, but to him."
"But if that's how you've always felt..."
"It makes me very happy. Just the sentiment alone is enough."
"We merchants are very harsh about borrowing and lending. We don't say such things lightly."
"Still, your relationship with him was rather obvious, I must say."
"Did you suppose that we were trying to hide it?"
"So, even if I cannot directly solve your problem, I am still clergy. If someone is hiding pain in their heart, I can at least listen to their troubles. After all..."
"... I confessed my heart."
"You're right."
"To be blunt, the way you two act is unnatural."
"I'm a human, and she's a wolf. There's nothing 'natural' about it,"
"That is not what I mean."
"Then what do you mean?"
"Why should two lovers not hold hands?"
"I simply can't understand it. You say she's a wolf, but there are many such stories in the books my father left behind, so..."
"girlish,"
"... Pardon me,"
"two lovers"
"N-now you see, Miss Elsa, that we live here in reality. Just as we cannot exist in two places at once, solving our problem is not so simple as joining hands."
"If that's so, why won't you fight for it? You say that without having even tried! You-"
"-!"
"... My apologies,"
"I have tried... to fight."
"Truly?"
"Truly or not... that I don't know."
"What do you mean, you 'don't know'?"
"I mean exactly that. Of course I want to go with her to our original destination. I want to go to her homeland. But the circumstances won't allow that. And the logical course of action is to do as she says. It's best for her, and it's best for me. And it's best for Col."
"Life has ups and downs"
"Can there not be a miracle?"
"Can there not be a miracle?"
"You and she came to our village and created a miracle, which saved us all. Can you not..."
"If a miracle cannot save you as well, then how can I go on teaching the word of God?"
"I know it's selfish of me to say so, I know that, but-"
"No, you haven't said anything wrong or mistaken. It's simply that we, or at least I, am not a pure enough soul to be saved by a miracle,"
"It turns out, the Myuri mercenaries are close to her homeland."
"Myuri, you see,"
"is the name of someone my companion separated from, centuries ago in her homeland. Someone she thought long dead."
"He's probably alive, though. She doesn't know yet. I'm going to tell her in Kieschen, when we part ways."
"Why?"
"Because I want her to concentrate on the journey with me until then. A mercenary band would never name themselves after a woman. It's ridiculous, but I'm jealous. We've gotten this far, I may as well confess it."
"I wished that Myuri would have stayed dead. Horrible, aren't I?"
"I should think that if miracles kept happening to a man like me, that would be a god whose word you couldn't spread."
"That is indeed awful of you. No doubt God will punish you."
"And yet I still do not understand."
"Feeling the way you do, yet trying to act rationally, it's - I simply don't understand. That's what's unnatural. You should choose one or the other."
"It is none of your business,"
"This is our problem and our decision. It is not your place to say what we should do. Not even as a teacher of God's word."
"You're quite right."
"But I wanted to repay my debt to you both. It doesn't seem to me that either of you are acting in your own best interests, so I wanted to at least-"
"Me, no. But she is, I assure you."
"Two lovers,"
"Then my question still stands. Why won't you turn and fight back?"
"It's like there are two Evans. Your indecision is so infuriating I can hardly stand it. Why won't you just act the way you honestly feel? Why are you convinced that swallowing down your own opinion is best for 192/224 her? God is the friend of the righteous. You have nothing to fear!"
"reason,"
"You're right about everything,"
"But I'm a simple merchant."
"So think!"
"Don't pray, think. If you say you've turned away from God and deserve no miracles, then stop praying and think like a merchant!"
"You merchants use all sorts of unbelievable techniques, don't you? You have means available to you that can only be called magic, don't you? Or if... if you're hesitating to use such despicable methods, then be at ease."
"I will do all I can to assure their correctness in the face of God's teachings."
"Incidentally, if I really did think of a way to make a miracle happen, what would you do for me?"
"What would you do for me?"
"... I-I'd give you my blessing."
"Oh, you're back, are you? This'll take a bit of time yet, so you can wait inside."
"You're the one who put me to this, remember that,"
"I'm grateful, truly. I would've gotten old before thinking of such a thing on my own."
"In my father's letters,"
"he wrote to tell me to go my own way. In his books there were many stories of modest happiness borne from compromise, but that no one had ever been truly satisfied with mere compromise. And..."
"... There were many stories where even when failure came, it brought satisfaction with it."
"You're quite right,"
"Aye, there you are! The water of Nyohhira is a hundred times hotter than this!"
"If you play around like this, you're going to catch cold. Here,"
"I've put each change of clothes at the door. Col, yours are from Elsa, so make sure to thank her."
"I-I will!"
"You, too,"
"Honestly,"
"I suppose no one saw you?"
"Just what sort of a fool do you take me for - achoo!"
"Is lunch prepared yet?"
"They're making the stove now. Just a bit longer."
"Mm. As the men at the docks said, 'They're best covered in olive oil and just roasted.'"
"This sort of bathing isn't bad, but in Nyohhira you can have strong, snow-chilled wine brought to you. How about that, eh?"
"Certainly, and since everyone in the area does likewise, they all keep the prices good and high."
"Mm,"
"Come, my body's next,"
"How about it?"
"Hurry and dry yourself off and get dressed,"
"And what shall I do once I'm changed?"
"I want to find Mr. Le Roi. Help me."
"For what purpose?"
"There is a mercenary band,"
"near Yoitsu."
"... Wha-!"
"They call themselves... the Myuri mercenaries."
"Find Mr. Le Roi for me. I need to see him."
"What's your aim, then?"
"I have a proposal for him."
"I'm not going to break any promises."
"I'm a merchant. I would never break a contract so easily."
"But I am going to propose a change in plans. So far as circumstances allow,"
"Do you-"
"Do you mean to say that you won't be going to Kieschen?"
"That depends."
"... Don't you tell me that you're..."
"Yes. Jealous,"
"Of Myuri, of course."
"Or is Myuri a woman? In which case we can just laugh about this."
"But come - Myuri is not what you're thinking-"
"But while you're reunited with him, I'll be alone on my wagon with my thoughts. To be frank, I hate that idea."
"What will you do?"
"Make it so we don't have to go to Kieschen. That's why I need to talk to Mr. Le Roi right away. I ought to be able to save Col and Elsa the trouble of going to Yoitsu as well."
"Can you do such a thing?"
"I hope to. This..."
"As a merchant, this is the only way I can turn and fight."
"You're hopeless, you fool."
"You fool."
"If it doesn't work out, I'll give up. That's the truth."
"Tell me it isn't,"
"Don't you think I've matured some?"
"You are a fool,"
"Truly, such a fool!"
"So we have to find that meat bun now?"
"Yes."
"Honestly... you'd best hope we're back in time for lunch!"
"You've got a frightening look on your face, my friend,"
"That's my line."
"If you're looking for provisions. I've already managed to buy up quite a bit."
"Never mind, then,"
"Walking around with a lady companion and an expression like that, no merchant alive will trust you,"
"As I'm only too aware,"
"So, what business brings you here? Don't tell me you've gotten cold feet."
"No."
"Well, what, then?"
"Something's come up rather suddenly, I'm afraid. I won't be able to go to Kieschen."
"Are you mad?"
"My companion asked me the same thing."
"Please, no games. I'm expecting a thousand silver pieces in profit from this deal."
"You'll excuse me, but I won't be kicking aside an agreement we've already settled on."
"About the company in Kieschen - it's a rather large one, with a special agreement with the Delink Company, correct?"
"Which means they must deal very regularly with many other companies. I'm not mistaken in thinking so, am I?"
"... I suppose not. But what of it?"
"If so, I ought to be able to remain in this town and still aid you in your purchase."
"With money orders."
"Money orders? How? They're just a convenient way of moving money."
"Not if we use them to harass."
"Mr. Lawrence. I have no idea what you're trying to say."
"We'll issue multiple money orders to the company in question from many others."
"Huh?"
"Each for maybe a few dozen silvers. Or perhaps a hundred or two hundred."
"We'll change all the names and send all the money orders in at once. The company in Kieschen will start cashing them without worrying about the strange coincidence, but as they start running low on coin, they'll begin to get suspicious - but it will already be too late. The coin will be gone from their coffers, and the money changers will catch wind of this and hike up their exchange rates. And what will the company do then? The money orders will keep coming in, including ones 205/224 from their regular customers. Which ones are the malicious ones and which are from partners they can't afford to anger? And in the midst of all this, customers and trading partners keep coming. 'Buy this, buy that, pay what you said you'd pay'... the company will be a mess."
"And that's where you come in. 'You seem to be in trouble, so I'll take these money orders off your hands. But there's a condition,' you'll say."
"And that's where I'd tell them I heard they had a certain volume in their possession."
"Exactly,"
"merchant"
"I understand what you're... proposing. But... is the Delink Company willing?"
"They will be. After all, coin is awfully valuable in Lenos right now."
"Ah-!"
"So long as there's a difference between the currency markets of Lenos and Kieschen, there's profit to be had. And fortunately for us, the value of coin in Lenos is clearly much stronger. Shall I show you the figures?"
"Are you... serious about this?"
"Of course."
"Well, shall we take this route?"
"Truly?"
"Are you not the one whose proposal this is?"
"Er, of course, this was my proposal, and if you're agreed, then I'm deeply grateful. But, ah, in addition, there's one more favor I'd like to ask..."
"I assume you yourself do not wish to go to Kieschen, Mr. Lawrence."
"You may be the one to have proposed this method, Mr. Lawrence, but it's still quite consistent with our requirements. And if you're willing to do this, we've no reason to refuse. After all, we've considered it ourselves."
"Wha-"
"However, no reasonable mind would come up with such an abusive technique, so even if someone did think of it, they would hardly propose it to us, or so we had concluded. Much less could we suggest it to you - you'd be instantly suspicious."
"But you've accumulated a bit too much age and experience to consider such crude, reckless things. Am I wrong?"
"There aren't many ways for a man to stay young. Your companion there was an excellent decision. I mean no offense - I am being quite sincere."
"I daresay I understood the moment I saw your companion. Two heads are better than one, they say. There's wisdom in that."
"Though we have four heads,"
"We therefore agree to your proposal. I trust you don't mind us handling the details?"
"It will be good business, I daresay. Though one does have to feel bad for the targeted company."
"Now then, may God grant us success."
"We've really done it now,"
"About the fee you promised,"
"Oh, please, please, not now."
"Later, then."
"No, that's not - that's not what I mean,"
"But-"
"We can talk about that once everything else is finished, can't we?"
"I will be playing the villain here, but we know they're going to surrender immediately. I could never content myself if I skipped paying the introduction fee on such an outrageous scheme. And more than anything else, I may not be Mr. Philon,"
"But I 210/224 want you to owe me a bit of a favor, eh? Are you truly a traveling merchant? I'm having a hard time believing it."
"I'm quite a failure as a traveling merchant, I should say. So you're not wrong about that."
"But still, Mr. Lawrence. Worry yourself not. Forcing people to do something they loathe with a smile on my face is my nature,"
"So this sort of thing is right in my wheelhouse. And the bigger the prey, the greater the feeling of accomplishment, eh?"
"I look forward to seeing your results,"
"We'll need some strong wine, then! The eels from the river here go best with a good strong wine. And we have to celebrate the execution - or amendment, I suppose - of our contract!"
"Mr. Philon and the others will be there as well. We'll need enough for..."
"Oh, I'll buy. But in exchange, pitch in something nice from your wagon bed, eh?"
"I'll leave it to you, then."
"You may safely do so. I'll ask you to promise not to eat any eel until I return, though!"
"presence"
"Well, now were rid of all our nuisances, eh?"
"It's an ironclad rule for all traveling merchants, you know - when going on a journey, travel as light as possible."
"Hmph."
"This way is shorter, is it not? And I've had my fill of crowds."
"Hey,"
"Hm?"
"There's something I want to ask."
"What is it?"
"Mm. Why is it... that you're so set on going to Yoitsu with me?"
"N-no, come now, do not make such a face. 'Tis strange to me. You're no fool, truly. You've brains enough to understand reason. So why was my notion to go alone so hateful to you? Jealousy of Myuri, aye, I could believe that once you'd heard of him, but that was a later addition, was it not? You still wanted to go with me, even before you'd heard about the mercenaries. And as for why, I simply cannot..."
"Is it so strange?"
"It seems so to me."
"..."
"Despondency"
"Truly, you said it yourself many times over, did you not? That if we were to separate, it was not a final parting? That it was not death?"
"I do believe I'm the one with the right to anger here. You're saying you don't trust me, are you not?"
"I don't much want to say this, but I trust you'll forgive me if it hurts to hear. But I... I've no intention of simply saying good-bye once we part. Must I explain absolutely everything to you?"
"Wh-what?"
"What did you just say?"
"Must I explain everything?"
"Ah!"
"Come now, surely you did not-"
"Er, no, I-!"
"Heh-heh... so that's how it is, eh?"
"Aye, well, I suppose I must admit I've done likewise."
"I love you."
"Ho, ho, you truly are a fool,"
"Hmph."
"Did you suppose I would tease you?"
"... Huh?"
"Fool."
"Honestly, to not accept the truth unless you have it spoken to your face... if you were anything but a merchant I'd rip your throat out,"
"And anyway, did you yourself not urge me to fight myself? You had the nerve to do that, and now look at you!"
"?"
"Do not tell me that all you meant by that was that I should fight over Col with that stone-headed girl? Was that all you meant by that?"
"Ah... O-oh, I see..."
"Why, you fool...!"
"You truly think only of yourself, don't you?"
"Especially when it comes to me."
"Well, you're no better,"
"Mm?"
"I wasn't going to show you this,"
"I didn't see any reason to irritate you. But that I've wished for this so terribly it's foolish..."
"Aye, 'tis what I hate about you."
"But you fool, you stupid fool, I... I do love you so."
"... Honestly. In all my centuries in the wheat fields, I saw many pairs of males and females, but I never once saw a male as foolish as-"
"I suppose we've to leave Col in the care of that bun head, then? And you've already prepared for our last travel as a pair, so I suppose the matter's settled. Come, then."
"Let's get back to the shop and take our meal, eh?"
"Mm, come now,"
"Come, you, that's quite enough..."
"Uh - come, you. H-hey. You're not going to-"
"Not... not here...!"
"You... foo-"
"You fool,"
"Ah, looks like we'll need more eel!"
"Ah, I'll help!"
"I wonder what got into them?"
"Oh ho, seems our eel is good and cooked, eh?"
"Come, open wide!"
"You'd refuse food from my hand?"