
"Good evening."
"A swift horse, eh?"
"Let us talk in a warm inn, shall we?"
"Miss Eve."
New Convo:

"Mmph... mmn..."
"puppy"
"Who would ever conceive of a wisewolf complaining of muscle pain?"
"For me to be so frail, you must think me... ngh..."
"god."
"Ah, well, I suppose it's what comes of running so far while carrying two people on your back."
"Aye, 'tis true I ran a bit too hard."
"Still,"
"'Tis shameful to be in such pain that I cannot get out of bed. 'Twould have been less so if those who rode on my back were also unable to rise in the morning."
"If you're so much wiser and farseeing such that I should just leave everything to you, then perhaps I should just go ahead and follow your lead. Except I trust you haven't forgotten last night, have you?"
"Honestly. Forget following your lead - I've got to keep a tighter grip on your reins. Just who did you say was whose driver again?"
"'Tis on account of your lukewarm disposition. Have you so easily forgotten just who 'twas that gave you that mark upon your face?"
"Surely you don't think that criticizing another proves your own point valid, do you?"
"Hmph..."
"I must hand it to Eve on that account. Faced with your threatening mien, she chose to withdraw rather than fight back."
"It's because she judged that picking a fight with us there held no profit for her."
"Oh, so now you'll talk to me like a child who knows not loss from gain?"
"It's because Eve could tell that your anger wasn't rational, isn't it? You were angry like a child is angry. All notions of profit aside."
"Well, having had such a passionate confrontation, it should make it easier to talk rationally. Easier for us to find some profit."
"... And?"
"If it was for me that you were so angry... thank you."
"Aye, if you say so."
"Now then, I'll just tidy up the dishes..."
"Aye,"
"I made a salve!"
"Ah, this salve will work on your wounds, too, Mr. Lawrence."
"Oh, that's right. The merchant we met yesterday on the way here said she wants to meet with you."
"The merchant we met yesterday? You mean Eve?"
"That's right."
"Haste is a virtue, eh? She'll be gone today or tomorrow, I guess."
"Where did she say I should go?"
"Er, she said she'd visit the inn after a bit."
"... I see."
"So, did you eat breakfast?"
"Huh? Ah... er, yes."
"I'll not forgive you if you lose."
"So, are you coming?"
"Well, you'd best finish that bread quickly, then,"
"R-right!"
"Once you're finished, of course, don't forget your 'I just ate rye bread!' face!"
"The Church also teaches that we should hide our mouths when we eat."
"But that's to hide when you're eating something good, is it not?"
"Thank you for the bread. It was delicious,"
"breakfast,"
"... What a terrible odor."
"Still, I've not smelled this in a long time. Doubtless that bruise of yours will be gone by evening."
"So he prepared a remedy for you, eh? Educated lad,"
"From Roef, are you?"
"At any rate, I know the banks of the Roam River backward and forward. And it's that knowledge that you've pursued me here for, yes? And with such unbelievable speed that I can't imagine how you managed it."
"My shock last night was the deepest I've had in many years. I wondered if there'd been some mistake with the contract."
"It's true, I seek only your knowledge - no contract of trade binds us."
"Let's move elsewhere. We're only earning the ire of the innkeeper and our fellow patrons here,"
"So, what of your companion?"
"My companion is quite tired from our journey. She's in bed with this salve on her body."
"That's..."
"... Well, you'll know soon enough."
"Still, that may be fortunate for me. And fortunate for you, as well, I should say."
"For both sides, then."
"Still, someone who will become angry on your behalf is a precious asset. You'd best value her."
"She thinks of me as her asset, and she was probably angry at her property being damaged."
"If you are indeed your companion's property, she would've sought compensation. But she instead sought revenge."
"Heh. Once you've inspired your opponent's guilt and sympathy, it makes dealing with them that much easier,"
"And why would you venture to admit that?"
"By revealing your own trap to me like that, you're trying to get me to let my guard down."
"Indeed. Thus my fangs will sink in all the deeper."
"vixen."
"Ah, we've arrived."
"Where's this?"
"My foothold in this town. If I told you it's like a trading company without a sign, you'd be able to imagine what I meant, no?"
"I'd appreciate it if you'd tease us a little less,"
"huh?"
"Out of consideration for your adorable little apprentice?"
"Unfortunately, he's not my apprentice, nor is he a merchant. So I wish you'd not twist the poor lad's mind too much."
"Ha-ha-ha! It's true! Oh, it's true - we merchants are a twisted lot."
"So Arold has not yet arrived, then?"
"Probably by this evening. Will you eat?"
"If this is the sort of food you eat, your next journey will be a harsh one."
"Quite right. A taste for fine food sends the costs of travel into the sky. But if you're not a merchant, there's no need to worry about such things, is there?"
"It's a 32/174 kind of fate, being a likable person,"
"I suppose I've a bit of motherliness left in me after all,"
"So, you had something to ask me?"
"Yes, about a cursed story."
"Ah, the talk of this riverside company looking for a holy relic - though I don't know if the pagans would call it 'holy.'"
"Those rumors started circulating in the Roam River region about two years ago. At the time, anybody who'd ever dirtied his hands in bad business was excited about it."
"And the truth?"
"Just what you'd expect. As long as there was no word of the bone being found, the rumors deflated as quickly as they'd spread. It turned into a joke."
"Does it fit that the rumor's source would be a company in Lesko, a town up the Roef River, one of the Roam's tributaries?"
"Indeed. I believe it was called the Debau Company. A scenic place where they held the mining rights to Lesko in an iron fist."
"And for this town, they mainly dealt with the Jean Company, yes?"
"Oh ho. I'd love to know where you picked up that little tidbit. You're quite well informed."
"Well informed about the Debau Company in Lesko and the church in Lenos that was so quarrelsome about our furs. And you know the Jean Company here in this town that makes the copper goods trade its cornerstone. The Debau Company and the Jean Company should be on rather good terms."
"And what would be the reason for that?"
"Apologies. I meant nothing by it,"
"My impression is that you're a reasonably cautious merchant. So why are you so concerned about this foolishness?"
"As I'm sure you've guessed, my companion was born in the north,"
"I'll bet she was."
"I doubt you'd pursue such irrational folly unless it was for that fetching young lady of yours."
"I don't know about that."
"Well, if the body of a god once revered in her homeland is being sold off for mere coin, I don't suppose she can simply stand there and let it happen. But if that's the case, there's something that bothers me."
"And that is?"
"You're a merchant who buys with coin, are you not? So are you your companion's ally or her enemy? Are you righteous? Or... are you evil?"
"It's no sin to buy goods with money. What's often evil is buying things that are not mere goods."
"Meaning?"
"If I were to buy the bone in an attempt to gain influence or power or to attract her attention to me, then she would surely loathe me. But money is after all a tool for purchasing goods. It only becomes evil when it's used to buy other things, like an ax used as a weapon rather than to cut wood. And my companion knows that."
"Well, you're the sort I'd want to do business with. Sorry for asking such strange questions."
"I've said before, I envy you and your companion. I've never felt that so much as I do now."
"I shall take that as a point of pride."
"I understand that you're not Kraft Lawrence's apprentice, and I must tell you, from the depths of my heart, that I think that's a waste."
"You probably know this, but the news of the Debau Company searching for the wolf bone is no hundred-lumione tale. If you bungle things, you'll learn just how cheap a human life can be. And yet I trust my merchant's instincts, and I'm thinking of trusting you just as much."
"I've chosen life over wealth. But I value my companion still more than my life, so I have expectations of my own."
"Perhaps it's not so bad to chase after a treasure map's treasure once in a while. Fine, then. Your goal's to draw out information from the Debau Company and their Jean Company confederates, yes? I'll write you a letter of introduction to the Jean Company. After that"
"it'll all depend on your wits."
"If all goes well, I'll depart this town just after midday tomorrow. I'll be heading south by sea, bidding this cold country farewell for a while."
"I'll see you off by way of thanks, then. It may be my last time to see you before you're quite the merchant prince."
"I'll be resting up for the journey today. If you come in the evening, you should be able to enjoy the food the servant prepares."
"And if I come while the sun's up?"
"If I'm the only one in the house... yes, well. Perhaps I shall treat you to a demonstration of my skill."
"Pork and beef may not be the only things getting cooked. I'll need to be careful."
"Heh. Well, if your companion's mood has improved, all three of you should come."
"We shall. Thank you for the letter,"
"She's quite an interesting person, eh?"
"Um... y-yes, she is..."
"Still, she's the one who gave me this,"
"We had a bit of a quarrel, and she struck me with a hatchet handle."
"... I... see..."
"She's got an unexpected side to her, and that's why you can't let your guard down. Just as the scarf around her head conceals her beauty, her beauty conceals something quite terrible."
"You saw Holo's anger last night, didn't you? The truth is, Eve nearly killed me."
"Wha-!"
"What's the matter?"
"It's true, then... that to survive in the world, one must be like her..."
"Of course, I don't just accept the teachings of the Church, either, and even back in the village there were hard times... and naturally I think that sometimes you can't just look at one thing, and even I know the world is an unforgiving place. But still..."
"Look-"
"B-but, I don't - I don't think you're in the wrong, Mr. Lawrence!"
"... Qu-quite. I was simply going to say that I have no idea what you're talking about and perhaps ask you to clarify."
"In any case, we should return to the inn before we make our way to the Jean Company."
"So that's what he said."
"Is that so?"
"Would you have understood what he was on about?"
"That's quite the medicine,"
"I suppose I cannot blame you for failing to understand. 'Twould be like asking a butcher about fish,"
"At this point, I'll readily admit that I'm the slow one. But having admitted that doesn't suddenly give me any new insight. I still don't understand."
"What's wrong?"
"Heh. Perhaps it is I who's the unusually kind one."
"What do you mean?"
"When you act so humble, I cannot very well laugh at your clumsiness."
"..."
"Still, I suppose it would be hard for you to understand, as you already know the truth of the matter. Can you really not imagine what an outsider might think, watching what transpired between you and that vixen?"
"Oh."
"Heh. You're quite the lucky one, eh?"
"He thinks that I had an affair with Eve, which ended in a lovers' quarrel. I never would've imagined it. That's why he was going on about not thinking I was 'in the wrong.'"
"That vixen's a female, and I'm a female, and you're a male. If we're speaking of conflicts that have come to blows, there can really be only one answer, can there not? That all of this fuss was actually over nothing more than gold is stranger by far. My price was sixty of those golden pieces, was it not? Honestly, I will never understand the human world,"
"Still, your actions were the least understandable of all. Coming to see me off, of all things - what a total, utter fool,"
"Is that all?"
"I brought the hot water!"
"Good job,"
"What's the matter?"
"I had them make it quite hot, so if it's too warm, I'll fetch some cold water,"
"I understand. Thank you, Col."
"No, I'm the one who forced myself along on your journey. This is the least I can do."
"Well, then, I shall help myself to the hot water straightaway. I can hardly believe how well this salve worked, but still, 'tis rather hard on my poor nose,"
"Aye, 'tis good and hot. I'll douse myself in it before it turns lukewarm."
"Ah, yes. If you're not careful, you'll catch cold,"
"What's the matter?"
"E-er, I'll just... be outside,"
"If he's in such a state, your talk with the vixen must have been friendly indeed."
"He looked at me like he was promising to keep my secret forever."
"Heh-heh-heh. When he looked at me, it was as though he felt some deep pity."
"You'd have more charm if you were a bit more like him."
"Well, you know what they say - a bit of vermilion turns everything red. I've spent so much time around you that all my charm's gone."
"'Tis true, and whoever said a bit of vermilion turns all red was wise indeed. After all, your face is always red."
"Not so much recently, though, no?"
"And whose mouth would say so?"
"You claim otherwise, then? Well, since that boy's so considerately left us alone..."
"Care to wash my back?"
"And just how are you feeling?"
"So, what's this? The trading company you're about to visit is involved in some foolish scheme?"
"We're going to figure out whether they are scheming, but according to Eve, there's a good possibility that they are."
"Even if we go, will they really talk to us?"
"That's just as Eve said. It'll depend on my skill."
"I do not like our chances,"
"Still, though,"
"how different things can be, even in the same city."
"If we cross over, there should be a Rowen Trade Guild house."
"That was where merchants from your hometown all gather, aye?"
"Yes. However, since the place has a sort of branch office in the delta marketplace, I've never actually been to the central house."
"Seems rather more lively over there. Shall we go and see?"
"I imagine you're only interested in the food,"
"What's wrong?"
"Ah, er... nothing..."
"Nothing?"
"Lies are a poor reprisal."
"Still you have nothing to say?"
"Uh... um..."
"I'd like to go to the delta."
"He's better at this than you,"
"You're not my apprentice, so I plan to fully repay you for the salve you made for us. Your preparedness was audacious."
"... I understand,"
"Go now, live your life free - you need no longer serve anyone."
"However, let me just say this. It will not be right away. Merchants are a hasty lot, and if I don't take care of this business first, I'll be useless."
"I understand. But..."
"I'll be looking forward to it."
"I've come to this town three times, but the truth is, I've never been to the delta,"
"Because of the ferryman's fee?"
"So, I've never been to the south side, but what about you?"
"The south side is... The town is very beautiful there."
"But there is more almsgiving on this side,"
"Is that so? I'd heard that the north side had more people from the north country, but still."
"I believe so. There are many people here who were born in Roef. But even if that weren't so, I have the feeling that people on this side are simply kinder."
"That's because the harsher the climate, the kinder the people who live there,"
"But-"
"The people in the south always seem very happy,"
"It's easier to make wine in warm weather, after all."
"Oh, I see."
"If you dally too long, I may just switch over,"
New Convo:

"Is this the place?"
"Jean Company,"
"Who goes there, eh?"
"If you've come to buy, I welcome you and gladly. But if you've come to sell something, well... you may have wasted the trip."
"Is business as bad as that?"
"Hunh. I make you as a merchant from the south. Is business good down south, then?"
"It's good and bad."
"Here it's terrible. The worst,"
"Ah, so there were eggs in there, eh? The hens lay them all over, and I never find them all. I'll have to gather them later... and yes, there's been a huge drop in the chicken population this year. It's damned quiet. Used to be this time of year the roosters and hens were lively as anything."
"Because of the cancellation of the northern campaign?"
"Right. With no people, there's no money, and when people don't move, their bellies don't empty. The price of farmed goods is dropping, along with things like barrels and buckets, and the armor that used to fly off the shelf goes nowhere, and to top it off, the price of wine just goes up and up."
"Huh?"
"When there's nothing to be done, what's left to do but drink?"
"So, what news of profit does this merchant bring with two lumps in tow?"
"Lumps?"
"I'd like to speak to the master of the Jean Company."
"Well, that'd be me."
"Oh, my apologies. So you're acquainted with the Bolan Company, eh?"
"The Bolan Company?"
"She may do business all alone without so much as hanging up a sign, but anyone who casts as wide a net as she does is a serious trading company, don't you think?"
"Mm, Kraft Lawrence, is it? Ho-ho. Never thought a man would come in here with a letter from that wolf of a woman. How'd you get her over the fire, I'd like to know."
"That's a secret."
"Bwa-ha-ha! I'll bet it is! So... if I might ask, what brings you to..."
"I see. It's been some time since anyone's been interested in this story. And if you went to the trouble of getting Eve Bolan to send you, well... I guess you're in earnest."
"Embarrassing though it is, yes,"
"Still, you must be quite a man to go to the trouble of getting a letter from that wolf just to come hear a silly tale like this."
"It's not as though we want a seat on the council. We want to know what can be done, not how we might seem."
"You've come to my company, Kraft Lawrence, and that was the right answer. I ought to introduce myself properly. I'm the master of the Jean Company, Ted Reynolds."
"Jean was my father's wife, you see. He was a devoted husband."
"My goodness."
"Though the name made his trade partners shiver in fear, so maybe he was more henpecked than devoted,"
"But you've come to ask me something even stranger."
"Indeed. People do many strange things in this world,"
"That's the truth. Hunh - ah."
"Wait just a moment,"
"Sorry to keep you waiting - oh, my."
"My apologies. My chickens just can't resist anything fuzzy."
"It's the cold season, after all. We'll have to hide our fingers,"
"Wah-hah-hah! I don't even want to imagine it! If they start pecking at my hangnails, I'll throw them all into the pot, along with the chicks hatching tomorrow!"
"What's that?"
"Ah, this, you see-"
"This is the crystallized effort of all the people who so helpfully cooperated with the rumor that we were searching for the incredibly valuable remains of a lonely mountain village's god."
"Are they real?"
"If only. Take a look around this trading house - can't you tell? I didn't buy these bones up out of greed, but now my shop's on the verge of collapse."
"Why would you care about this folly now?"
"Eve asked me the same question. These two were born in the north, you see."
"Mm..."
"I see, so... ah... I was a bit rash. Please don't think poorly of me. I didn't mean my bitterness over this foolish tale as an insult to your deity,"
"In that case, I'm quite willing to cooperate with you. The truth is, this tale is an absurd one indeed."
"Up in the mountains of Roef, there remain many legends the Church cannot overlook. Some of them are nearly impossible to believe, but others are difficult to doubt. I don't know what region you're from, but it was said that the remains of a wolf-god lay in a certain village, and I lived in a place that seemed likely."
"Was it the village of Rupi?"
"Yes. If you know that name and you're chasing this tale, you're either very lucky to still be alive, or you've seen the unfairness of the world with your own eyes."
"And you there next to him, miss... Merchants can't take riches to the grave, but they can take their memories, so I don't want to ask why you say you hail from the north but are dressed as a nun of the Church,"
"So, then, about the god of Rupi. I suppose it was the year before last, around the end of summer. Back then the missionaries and mercenaries were gallivanting all over the northern mountains and plains. Stories of this or that befalling this or that village were not uncommon. Among them, though, was a tale seized on by a trading company I was close with. Or perhaps I should say, they couldn't help but seize on it."
"The Debau Company, yes?"
"Heh. This merchant bearing a letter from the wolf woman of the house of Bolan tells no lies. I respect her, and if she has put her trust in you, then I respect you, Kraft Lawrence, as well."
"I apologize for interrupting your tale."
"Not at all. If I am the only one talking, I'll never notice how longwinded I'm being. Since you're not entirely ignorant of the situation, I should give you the important details."
"There was a certain faction of the Church that for various reasons the Debau Company could not easily defy, and this faction brought them an offer. 'Among the pagan stories we've gone into the mountains to investigate,' they said, 'there are some that are unlike the more absurd tales. They have shape and truth. And if that's so, then you merchants who deal in everything on this earth, you should be able to go and find the shape and truth of this.'"
"Just as we find alchemy mysterious and thus assume that alchemists can work miracles, it seems the men of the Church find our trading mysterious and wanting in virtue - and thus mistakenly think we can accomplish anything. But often in business there are requests we can't refuse. And those always flow from high to low."
"You're right about that,"
"And our company is situated here at the bottom of the Roam River, which is ruled over by the great river spirit Roam. We must meet whatever comes down the river, whatever happens. Truly-"
"-We must, no matter the cost."
"And so it turned into quite a commotion, because some were saying that if the real bones were found, they would be paid a thousand, two thousand lumione for them."
"So-"
"-So, did you find the bones?"
"Heh. If I had, I'd be sitting at a golden desk right about now. Of course, at the time, rumors that I'd already found the bones and made a huge profit were flying around left and right, and I was attacked who knows how many times. But a little thought made it obvious. Just who had ever paid that much gold coin for something without attracting the attention of others?"
"You've got yourself a fine apprentice there, Mr. Lawrence."
"He's not my apprentice."
"Surely-!"
"He's a future scholar of Church law. If I said he was my apprentice, I'd never be able to pass through the gates of Heaven."
"Hrrrm! Born in the northlands, a future Church law scholar, and chasing tales of the god of his hometown... Well, I certainly see why that wolf woman would put her trust in a merchant like you. You seem like you're on a very complicated - and truly enviable - journey."
"So then, is this one from a famous convent somewhere?"
"Bwa-ha-ha-ha!"
"What fine guests you all are! What say you to 71/174 this? It'll be midday soon. Shall we all take a meal in celebration of our meeting?"
"If you wouldn't mind, I'd love to."
"What wonderful fortune. I'll summon one of my men to prepare some food. However"
"to do that I'll need a single healthy chicken, but today it seems there isn't a chicken to be found."
"Ah!"
"If you wouldn't mind, I'd like you to call over my neighbors for dinner,"
"Please, eat,"
"My regards to Eve Bolan."
"Now, then,"
"So, what shall we do?"
"Yes... what, indeed,"
"He told us everything a lot more easily than I was expecting. It's kind of disappointing, isn't it?"
"Oh?"
"I was sure he'd try to hide more from us,"
"... Yes, well. We've confirmed that the Church believed the story from Rupi to be true, which means that there was something for them to believe in. Which is a big step forward."
"But there is one unfortunate thing."
"...?"
"Since we learned what we needed to know so easily, it looks like we won't need to use our trump card."
"Ah... you mean about the copper coins?"
"Well, if there's no reason to use it, you can just tell me once our journey's over, by way of thanks."
"Now then, as far as this all goes, about all we can do is go back to Eve and thank her, gathering some information along the way. And we shouldn't hurry too much. We don't want to be suspected of anything."
"... Er, so... because if there's anyone seriously following us, we'll wind up making them think we're up to something, right?"
"Reynolds and Eve didn't mind telling us all about the wolf remains because they've both thought the whole thing through and decided it's nonsense. If they hear anything that gives it the ring of truth, they'll both shut their mouths on the spot."
"So if we keep searching for the tale too seriously, they'll start to wonder if we've discovered a key that proves the story is true."
"But the irony is that we can ask about it so easily because nobody believes it's true. Even though we're asking so we can figure out the truth."
"It's also a question of faith. You have to have the courage to believe you're right even when everyone around you says you're wrong."
"So this would be one way to put that into practice: If a priest asks God if the people can be saved and gets no reply, it's not because God is being careless, but rather the question is...?"
"The question's obvious is the reason."
"Seems like pleasant chat's happening right before me,"
"If there is no need to go straight back to that vixen's burrow, then I've a place I'd like to go."
"And that is?"
"That lively looking place."
"You only ever think about food,"
"I am always thinking about you, as well,"
"That's because I am your food."
"So you'll loosen your purse strings a bit for me?"
"What do you think?"
"I think you'll need to get a room."
"Yes, I do need some wine,"
"Is today a festival day or something?"
"Hmm? This is hardly the only place so crowded, you know. I have been to towns where they're like this through and through,"
"I-is that so...? The only really crowded place I've ever been is Aquent..."
"Aye. Do not worry; youth is an ignorant time. All you need do is watch and learn."
"That's surely true. After all, you said nearly the same thing to me the first time we visited a port town,"
"As the contents of your coin purse are so small, aye, you must truly enjoy boasting of how much more worldly you are than I!"
"I could say precisely the same thing to you. The only large city you've ever visited is Ruvinheigen!"
"play with me!"
"Only because you're a skinflint of a traveling merchant who pinches every penny, even for food. I lived a captive's life, unable to go where I wished. Or will you take me where I wish to go?"
"Merchants interpret everything through money. So as long as it costs nothing, I will cooperate with you as much as you need."
"For example?"
"For example... hmm..."
"In that case, how about some pillow talk? Or do I need to make it clearer than that?"
"It's true that pillow talk doesn't cost anything. Although whenever I carry you to bed, you're always drunk."
"What else can I do? Your conversation is far too boring to endure sober."
"Now then, shall we have a look around?"
"U-um, what food is this town known for, I wonder..."
"Hmph. When you say it like that, it makes it sound like all I care about is food."
"Wha-? N-no, that's not what I-"
"Come, hurry!"
"Stop your dallying! Come, now-"
"...?"
"I thought for sure you'd headed south... but maybe sightseeing comes first,"
"Yes, as a bit of a break from work. My wound still aches a bit, you see."
"For my part, I was in the middle of resting up when that lot flushed me out. They're big fish on the north side for Kerube,"
"Are they merchants?"
"They're not involved in buying or selling goods, but they're awfully good at bookkeeping."
"If you're interested, come to the spring of gold. Now, if you'll excuse me."
"You've some nerve, watching another female right in front of me."
"Shall I look only at you from now on, then?"
"Ah, Miss Holo!"
"E-er-"
"Hmm?"
"Are you not going to...?"
"I am not. I think she'd like you to go with her."
"I don't-"
"You don't think so?"
"I'll admit that you're clever, but even a bit of thought should have led you to conclude that I've got no leg to stand on."
"It's true that she's angry with me. But the part where she's quarreling with me, that's a lie."
"This should be more than enough for all the food and drink you could want. Be careful that Holo doesn't have too much wine."
"..."
"She can see right through me, you see. She knows Eve's words have caught my interest. But she also hates Eve and doesn't want to have to see her face."
"And then?"
"Well, then."
"A trenni for sightseeing, eh?"
"In the name of the great spirit of the river, Roam!"
"Seems like things are hard everywhere,"
"You think so, too, eh?"
"Why so startled? It's as though you've something to hide."
"... Merchants keep their secrets and their coins tucked safely away in their purses, after all."
"I'd like to take mine to the grave, if I can."
"Quite right."
"So, what business might you have with a gossipy traveling merchant like me?"
"Such cheek. I doubt I'll ever forget your hands closing around my throat so long as I live."
"And here I thought you'd be over there sitting in one of those seats."
"That ceremony? If there was anything to be gained from that, I'd pray to God a little more often,"
"The meeting's started."
"It's not quite a farce, but a meeting's conclusion always comes from somewhere outside the participants, don't you think?"
"... So, you're saying they've entrusted their under-the-table dealings to you."
"Not to put too fine a point on it."
"I'm wondering why you'd bother idling around with me, then,"
"If I said it made me happy you were honestly envious, would you laugh?"
"I'd laugh, all right."
"I was right to spot you and call you over. The truth is, I was rather melancholy about having been summoned by that lot."
"It won't make you any money?"
"I played with fire in Lenos and on the Roam River, but yes, that's one of the reasons I could breathe a little easier once I entered Kerube."
"I'm sort of a mercenary for them, but they've ordered me to do something essentially impossible. Do you know the story behind this marketplace?"
"Scores of years ago, it was a group of merchants from the south who proposed the marketplace because they wanted a place to trade with the north. However, the landowners were a little short on wisdom and thought that if they sold the land, it would be a huge loss, so they bragged they would construct their own market. Even if it drove them into a deep debt."
"The landholders were from the north. The moneylenders were from the south."
"Yes. The men over there are the sons of the ones who borrowed the money and those who lent it. In exchange for not losing the land and receiving exorbitant rent for its use, they wind up paying an equivalent amount of interest. Of course, the landowners 94/174 cannot hide their irritation at this and are constantly looking for a way out."
"But they haven't found one."
"So, what will the second generation look for next? The answer is simple: a scapegoat."
"Still, I don't have a monopoly on misfortune. You saw Reynolds's place, didn't you?"
"Yes... it was shabbier than I expected."
"Hah. At least be a little more circumspect about it. But even a place that deals only in copper exports has its profit swallowed up by the powers that be. That's the sort of place this is."
"But I mustn't get you involved in any trouble. I'm off to negotiate, I suppose."
"I had no problems hearing the story of the wolf remains!"
"A merchant can never play the leading role,"
"Come, you."
"You're certainly living it up."
"Am I? We've but used the silver coin you gave us."
"Using a whole trenni on wine without a single hesitation is simply... well, I'll have to explain it to you sooner or later."
"Where's Col?"
"Just what you're thinking."
"Honestly... don't drive him too hard now."
"So, did you hear anything new?"
"Does it look like I did?"
"Aye. You seem pleased."
"Pleased?"
"You're a century too young to try lying to me."
"Well, 'tis true I took notice of your pleased face. If you're tripped up by such a ruse, you've much to learn yet."
"... I'll keep that in mind."
"'Tis doubtful whether you'll be able to fit it in that wee mind of yours,"
"... I see. Anyway, it's not quite true that I'm pleased. To be honest, it's the sort of story that makes me want strong wine rather than sweet."
"Aye?"
"Ho... 'tis a bit cold,"
"So, of what tale did you hear tell?"
"The dark side of this town, I suppose."
"Oh, aye?"
"Simply put, it's a matter of debt and payment, but the amount is rather enormous."
"Have you any notion of how many words I just swallowed with this wine?"
"If 'twas talk of money that was none of your concern, you ought to have been wagging your tail in delight. But you weren't - why, I wonder?"
"So, what did you discuss with that vixen?"
"... Eve, who so thoroughly got the best of us before, is being treated like a mere child here."
"Hmph."
"The town's powers that be are using her as a scapegoat. I had to tip my hat to her exploits in Lenos and on the Roam River, but here she's just a whipping boy. And it's just..."
"... Sad."
"Things happen even to a merchant like Eve. So what does that mean for me, over whom she triumphed so thoroughly? I can't help but wonder. Don't you want people who best you... to go on to further success?"
"Listen here, you,"
"Hmm?"
"Listening to you talk made me mad enough for two."
"... I see."
"But now looking at your face. I'm thrice angry."
"Well, you eat enough for five, so you've got two left to go,"
"The first is that by your reasoning, I'm a pathetic fool for being your companion."
"The second is because only a pup would despair at such a foolish notion."
"I won't argue."
"And as for the last-"
"... To see you turn tail and behave in a manner so unbecoming a full-grown male, when on your face..."
"... My face?"
"You speak of such weakness, and yet"
"your face says you could go off on your own at any moment."
"But if I looked as though I couldn't continue on alone, you'd rail at me without mercy, would you not?"
"Naturally, I would. I'd rail at you, toy with you, tease you, and when you still followed me, I'd be entirely delighted."
"I'd... just as soon avoid that."
"Fool,"
"Do you want me to say I was in the wrong?"
"You are ever in the wrong."
"..."
"Still, don't you think it's strange?"
"Aye?"
"If that's all true, why am I the one who ends up comforting you?"
"Because 'tis my particular privilege, that is why."
"Ugh... still, I suppose that's how I like you, so it's my own fault."
"Heh,"
"Hey, are you going to use Col to tease me... again...?"
"When people are strong, they do not look back. And for long ages, I couldn't look back. And I am tired of it."
"You know that I'm a coward, don't you? I'm constantly looking over my shoulder, terrified. So don't worry on that count,"
"I hate it!"
"Whenever I decide something, I consult with you. That's what you mean, isn't it?"
"Despite your offering to me, I hate that things are changed left and right without my thoughts being solicited."
"So my feelings are an offering?"
"I should think one is necessary for prayer."
"A prayer for what?"
"For the boy Col to come."
"Still, 'tis quite a knack being able to pick the right time to lay a trap for you. 'Tis pleasant sometimes."
"Don't think you'll always be able to trick me."
"Sorry to keep you waiting!"
"Aye, and wait we did. Where's the wine?"
"Er, it's right - oh, there's enough for you, too, Mr. Lawrence."
"You hardly needed to buy so much! Ah, 'tis such a waste."
"So, is there anything we can use in all this talk you overheard?"
"Are you listening?"
"I'm listening."
"I wonder."
"It's probably worth investigating. It seems the bigwigs of the north side borrowed the money to build the marketplace, and they're keen to pay it off. And it's gotten so bad that over at the Jean Company, where we were mistaken for powerful, crafty merchants, they've got a mule yawning in front of the eaves ready to go, and they're not even gathering their chickens' eggs."
"His profits are being snatched away?"
"Yes. The Jean Company deals exclusively with copper from the Roam River region, but the profits are being stolen away by the northside bigwigs. Which means-"
"-Which means 'tis no surprise he went so angrily in for all this talk of absurd profit."
"Yes, well, that too. Also-"
"-Reynolds seemed slightly suspicious."
"Mm. Well, he is surely hiding something."
"Huh?"
"It's not too hard to guess at what. If he were using the story of the wolf remains to hide something, then-?"
"Hiding his ears without hiding his tail, eh?"
"There's a saying - 'A fearsome hawk is one that hides its talons.' I think what he was hiding was not his ears, but his horns."
"Also, when you were parting, he gave you quite the fierce handshake, did he not?"
"When he told me to give his regards to Eve Bolan, he meant either her money, her business skill, or her connections."
"That vixen just spent all her money on those furs. We might not know the state of her coin purse, aye, but surely there are other places from which he would borrow money,"
"... Which leaves either her talent or her connections. Either way, aren't the actors and the stage a little too perfectly matched?"
"E-excuse me!"
"Could... could Reynolds still be looking for the remains even now?"
"If what Reynolds is hiding is the fact that he's still searching for the remains, then he should have politely sent us on our way. So did he welcome us in because of Eve's letter? If so, that would mean the reason he wanted your handshake when we were leaving was..."
"The reason is because he wants your help in searching for the wolf remains, isn't it?"
"What of it?"
"Do you even need to ask?"
"Also, if we imagine that, then it's obvious why Eve so readily drafted a letter for us. Since this is Eve we're talking about, she would've known ahead of time that Reynolds wanted to cooperate with her in finding the remains. But since the story is what it is, she was careful, dodging our questions. Or she might not believe it to be true. Either way, Reynolds wants Eve's help badly. What's Eve thinking? She's as cunning as a wolf, so at first she probably turned him down because of the absurdity of the story, but then we appeared, and she thought, What if? But it would be unwise for her to ask Reynolds directly. So what does she do? Suddenly, some people appear right before her eyes, begging to be used."
"Aha,"
"So then, what shall we do?"
"It's obvious..."
"We'll investigate. And if there's nothing there, that's fine."
"Right, let me explain each of your roles."
New Convo:

"I win!"
"I suppose I lost,"
"Now, then,"
"You've memorized your roles, then?"
"Yes!"
"Aye."
"I'm a little nervous,"
"Don't worry. If there's one piece of advice I can give, it's that the secret to telling a lie is telling yourself that depending on how you think about it, it's actually the truth. That way you're not actually lying,"
"Er... no, I'm all right. I'll make sure to gather all the stories."
"I'm sure you will,"
"So, we'll meet again in the evening."
"Yes."
"So, shall I be off then, too?"
"Er, yes."
"Hmm?"
"Will you really be all right on your own?"
"Perhaps - perhaps I should go with you-"
"So 'tis well and good for the boy Col to go off on his own, but you haven't the conviction to let me go alone?"
"That's not what I meant, but..."
"Aye, and what did you mean?"
"I'm sorry,"
"You fool."
"-?"
"You truly are a terribly clumsy ruler."
"Ruler?"
"A terribly clumsy one, yes,"
"Firstly, I haven't the faintest notion why you wouldn't let me go alone in this situation."
"Well, I mean... just, if something were to happen..."
"Aye, and the same holds true for Col. Listen, you-"
"A-all right..."
"You're the general awaiting my report, are you not? And Col and I are your hands. So if you'll only put us each to hard use, you'd better hold our reins."
"Because success and wanting me to praise you are the same?"
"You wish to have a shop of your own someday, do you not? If so, you've much to learn about using others,"
"Ah-"
"And yet you dare to take hold of my reins?"
"That's what's so charming about me, right?"
"Perhaps."
"Well, then, I'm counting on you."
"I can still see the worry in your face, but I shall take your words for what they're worth."
"Some wheat bread would be nice for dinner."
"If you succeed, yes,"
"..."
"Oh, now, there's a rare face."
"It's been too long, Kieman."
"Indeed, it has, Kraft Lawrence. You've arrived this time by land, I take it?"
"No, by ship - though it was via the river and not the sea."
"I'm not on my usual route. There was some trouble in Lenos."
"Ah, I see."
"I saw rather an interesting show by the spring of gold."
"Heh. An interesting show, indeed, Mr. Lawrence - most impressive. Though it's a rather impenetrable display, even for a traveling merchant."
"One never knows where the sting may be laid, even in a seemingly transparent conversation. Even now Chief Jeeta at the main office is out and about, trying to protect our coin purses."
"So there's a sting, is there? From what I heard, the landowners of the north side are so many fish, flopping about on land."
"Yes, they were caught decades ago and are long since dried out. But this year, the lack of the northern campaign has slowed the flow of gold. It seems necessity knows no law."
"Perhaps only a passerby like me would imagine that making another loan to show compassion would turn out better in the future."
"Not at all. Normally it would be exactly so, but unfortunately, they're sons of men who continued to pay interest until they died, and they themselves have been paying interest since they were born. Then ten or so years ago, there was a war in the Strait of Winfiel, and over the years as they fell behind on their interest, we on the south side offered to forgive some of their debt. They'd paid enough, we said."
"So they were stubborn."
"Exactly so. They stubbornly paid their interest, insisting they would eventually pay back in full. For our part, if we could only expand the marketplace, it would be trivial to reclaim the interest on the debt. But they know that, and so it only makes them more stubborn. 'We won't let you profit from us any further,' they say."
"If only they would be more rational. As it is, marriage between the north side and south side is still difficult, to say nothing of moving one's household."
"I see. So that means the rumor I heard might not necessarily be mistaken."
"Rumor?"
"Yes, it seems the Jean Company on the north side of town is being exploited by the powers that be there."
"Might I ask... where you heard that?"
"Actually, there was a strange former gentry in Lenos that I..."
"... Made a business deal with,"
"Mr. Lawrence, you seem tired from your journey. Would you care to rest yourself inside?"
"Yes, with pleasure,"
"So, what is your relationship to the head of the Bolan family?"
"I am a traveling merchant, so I'm obviously not her dance partner."
"There was a disturbance. Something about furs, was it?"
"We tried to complete a large business deal together, but she betrayed me at the last minute. I've been so frustrated about the whole affair that I came down the river to vent my spleen at her."
"Surely you're joking."
"The part about the business deal is true, and I did come down the river in search of Eve. However, my goal was to ask for her aid."
"In business?"
"I came across something quite strange in my travels. That happenstance led me to follow a certain silly tale."
"A silly... tale?"
"Yes."
"You refer to the story of the wolf remains."
"Yes. For you to hit upon it so soon, it must be quite a famous tale around here."
"Famous it is, yes, but... Mr. Lawrence, is that truly what you're pursuing?"
"I can see you're shocked."
"No, not as such, but..."
"My apologies. There's no point in hiding it. I am indeed shocked."
"My traveling companion was born in the north. It concerns her homeland, and she desperately wishes to find the truth."
"I see... What shocks me, though, is not the fact that you're chasing the story in and of itself."
"Rather, what I find shocking is that while having an acquaintance with Eve Bolan, you would use it to pursue this wild-goose chase of all things."
"In other words, if I know Eve, I could use her to pursue any number of legitimate opportunities,"
"The reason I brought you back here, Mr. Lawrence, is that her name is extremely important in this town at the moment, and we're in a very delicate position."
"Meaning?"
"She's using her status as former nobility to secretly cooperate with the town headmen for profit. She's probably the only one who has a complete picture of all the interested parties. No one knows what the impact might be of a single mistake in their dealings with her. I called you back here and told you of this, Mr. Lawrence, for the same reason I spoke with you earlier."
"So to hear that you've come here not to do business with Eve, but instead to ask her for clues to your folly of a quest - it not only surprises me, but also comes as an enormous relief."
"Do not do business with Eve in this town."
"But I think you are correct to seek her advice regarding the wolf remains. I doubt there's anyone with as much knowledge of the Roam River region as she."
"Still, I must wonder at what history led you to do business with her. Here in this town, there are many who wish to deal with her, but she's utterly unapproachable. I'm sure anyone who can get a favorable response from her will do well..."
"I did nothing. She approached me, and only now am I starting to understand why."
"Oh?"
"She ingratiated herself with the headmen, used them, profited, and then was unable to pay them back. Or perhaps she simply didn't want to. It was none other than Eve who was clashing with the south side's coin purse mercenaries."
"I was truly deceived in my dealings in Lenos. I'd wagered not only the money I'd raised by selling my precious companion into hock, but also my own life. And in the end - well, the knives and hatchets came out, but the reason I think she pulled me into the deal was that by that time, the only person she could deceive and use was a traveling merchant like me."
"I see... That does seem likely. I must admit I'm rather... envious that you could ask for her help even after knives and hatchets had come out."
"True colors come out when you squabble like children over a purse full of coin. I don't know that Eve and I are friends exactly, but we do share some embarrassing memories, let's say."
"Understood. Now, then-"
"Yes?"
"Eve Bolan or the trade guild - which is your priority?"
"Well... the guild, of course,"
"In that case, I'm expecting you to behave in a manner befitting a member of this guild. Human connections are assets - they are capital. And large business requires large capital,"
"Eve was only just in a difficult place without anywhere to turn, you see,"
"Mr. Kieman! Mr. Kieman!"
"But I've taken too much of your time. It seems I have other business to attend to, so if you'll excuse me."
"Ah, yes-"
"-If you speak of this to anyone else..."
"... You'll surely regret it,"
"May I help you?"
"Excuse me, she's an acquaintance of mine."
"What happened?"
"With the town suddenly in such an uproar, I can hardly leave you on your own."
"What do you mean?"
"So, did you find anything out?"
"I received but the most perfunctory answers. I thought with the abundance of charming fools like you, I'd have no trouble drawing them out, but with this sudden commotion, they simply sent me off. What is happening?"
"They sent you off? Out of the church?"
"Aye. I wondered if some great demon had appeared in the town to threaten the church..."
"That would've been a calamity, indeed... but I do wonder what it was that involves the Church."
"Once I was cast out of the church, I thought I would try to track the disturbance, but there was such a crowd that there was naught for it - not to mention the many men with swords and spears."
"Soldiers?"
"Aye. All I could tell was that they were carrying something precious from the river, and it seemed they went into the church. It was a terrific uproar. Indeed, and that lad who wanted to make me his bride - when was it again? - he was there."
"Back in Kumersun."
"But what would happen to raise such a fuss?"
"You may ask, but I have no answer. Even listening carefully to the crowds, I couldn't make sense of it at all. I decided 'twould be better to return to you for the nonce."
"Huh,"
"According to what they were saying when I arrived, it seems a ship from the north side was being towed by a ship from a company on the south side, but I assumed it was just talk of internal politics."
"Explain it so I can understand,"
"The north and south sides of this town are in conflict, right? But they can't draw lines in the ocean. When the fish head north, they fish in the north, and when the fish are south, they go south. Whenever there's fishing in rivers, lakes, or oceans, issues of territory are always a source of strife. That's what I thought they were talking about. You'd hardly think that a trading company in the south would be so taken by a north-side fishing vessel out on the ocean that they'd buy it up on the spot, would you?"
"But for them to tow a north-side ship in and bring ashore something that required armed escort, and for that to be the work of the Church instead of a trading company, it makes me wonder if they really caught a mermaid or something."
"A mermaid?"
"They're a kind of legendary creature. The sea immediately next to us is known as the Winfiel Strait, but around its northern mouth is a reef where there were constant shipwrecks. And there's an old legend about them, that women with voices of unearthly beauty sing enchanted songs from that reef, causing sailors to lose their way and wreck their ships upon the rocks. And those sailors who wonder what beautiful women are doing on the wave-pounded reefs soon have their questions answered - the mermaids are human from the waist up, but below that, they have the tails of fish."
"Human males surely are easy to fool."
"Isn't it better to stay carefree rather than constantly being on guard for deceptions?"
"Aye, well, we enjoy our wine as well. Still,"
"have you sworn to the God of the Church not to fall into their trap and not to fall into this one?"
"Huh?"
"I'm asking if you have anything to hide."
"Gah-"
"You fool."
"If it was such an unreasonable demand, why didn't you simply refuse?"
"Dozens, hundreds of merchants are members of the Rowen Trade Guild, including some who earn thousands of lumione in a year. It is nothing less than an entity that could squash me without a second thought. No matter what favor they might ask of me, I cannot refuse it. Absurd, you might think - but that is part of why promises are always kept."
"Hmph. Well, I suppose 'tis true that a youngster can hardly disobey a veteran."
"You see?"
"Aye. But still, those in such position often have too much to lose and cannot risk bold moves. You wish to use your acquaintance with that vixen to accomplish something, but with others involved, perhaps they fear the trouble it might cause and thus threaten you."
"And for those trying to hold the group together, keeping a weather eye on your underlings so they don't make foolish mistakes is common sense. I doubt you've anything to worry about."
"Anyway, whatever you decide, all I need do is act according to my own priorities,"
"Even if I were at the top of that list, I assume you wouldn't admit it, would you?"
"Aye. I cannot have you getting seduced."
"Are we finished here? Let's meet back up with Col."
"That's my line, you dunce!"
"You mustn't tell Col,"
"Ah, welcome back..."
"... I'm tired."
"That much is obvious, but did you hear anything to match the effort?"
"Er... yes. It was just as you said, Mr. Lawrence. The Jean Company should be profiting, but I heard they don't eat proper food, and they hardly ever give to charity."
"Which means that they might even be taking those chicken eggs to market and selling them."
"Then mayhap that feast was meant to court us."
"Quite likely. So Reynolds may well be serious about the wolf remains."
"Even from what I heard, reinforcement seemed possible."
"Meaning?"
"The church in the town we were just in, I hear, has been very bold in spreading the teachings of their God and has been inspiring their flock all along the river. That verve has reached all the way to the northern mountains, the heartland of paganism, and there gives courage to the knights fighting with pagans on the front line."
"But the northern pagans' resistance has been fierce, and since for the nonce the missionary efforts are making little progress, the Church men were warning me not to be swayed from the true path, despite the mistaken beliefs of my kith and kin."
"The Church can never appear weak in its dealings with pagans. For them to state something so close to the truth must mean their true situation is desperate. If so, considering the situation with the bishopric in Lenos, talk of drastic measures to reverse their position - such as getting the wolf remains into their hands - cannot be easily dismissed as absurd."
"Too true. When I mentioned the bones, the fools would speak of the need to take them as quickly as possible, to show the pagans the error of their ways,"
"There's no doubt that the Jean Company is looking for the remains. And they're closing in on the location. Or perhaps it's better to say that they're getting closer to handing them over to the Church."
"And should we just go then to this whatever-'tis-called company?"
"Imagine what would happen if we tried to solve everything with brute force. Your true nature would absolutely come out, and the Church's rage would be roused. A pagan god in the flesh - 'all ye faithful servants of God, rise and take swords in hand,' they would say."
"If possible, our solution should be money. In the worst case, a secret theft would also work."
"Such childish gambits-"
"Enough money can easily kill a person. With money, your homeland could be stripped bare. It is not 'childish.'"
"Still, now that we've recognized the situation, the question becomes what we can do about it, and the answer may well be 'not very much.'"
"... Why should that be? If this company is seeking the aid of that vixen, then we have two choices."
"Two?"
"We can use this fellow's wits to threaten them."
"I see,"
"And the other?"
"We do what that company wants and play matchmaker twixt them and the vixen. We can hear the location of the wolf remains once she's been asked where they are."
"There may be some possibility of that with the Jean Company, but there's still a clear flaw there."
"Oh, aye?"
"Yes. What profit is there for Eve in doing that? If we ask her where the remains are, make no mistake that she'll instantly be on guard against having them stolen away. Why would she...?"
"We need but seduce her. You're trying to fool this wisewolf, so it should be no trouble at all, nay?"
"Col, my lad, close your eyes and cover your ears."
"Wha-?"
"Did you think I had not noticed?"
"Wh-what are you-"
"Even you can tell what someone has eaten by what remains on their mouth. But I can tell by scent alone. Even the slightest morsel if I get that close."
"that close."
"Ah-"
"All I can do is pray you stop being such a reckless male. I'd then spend less effort trying to teach you the difference betwixt courage and foolhardiness."
"Look here, this is a misunderstanding."
"I am perfectly aware of that. I told you, 'tis impossible to hide anything from me."
"In any case, what we should do now is-"
"-We put an end to this stubbornness and ask young Col for his thoughts. Unless your heart's set on seducing that vixen, that is."
"... It can't be..."
"... Aye, common sense is a troublesome opponent... and yet... and yet..."
"Er... I don't remember the exact amount, but if they used this method and made a bit of an adjustment, they would go from fifty-seven boxes of copper coin to sixty... I think."
"No, I'm sure it would. Yes, I see. And no one would be the wiser."
"Doubtless not. And still... hnh,"
"pack coins tightly in boxes,"
"I wonder, though - has no one else noticed this?"
"Hmm?"
"I'll agree that Col is a bright lad, but there are many bright people in the world. If you did this for years, surely you would eventually meet someone else who knows the trick, would you not?"
"The Jean Company is probably cutting down on the taxes and transport costs they pay and turning profit on the excess, but there's something very particular necessary for anyone to finally realize that they are making dishonest gains."
"Aye?"
"... Ah! The manifest!"
"Yes. Only after we know the details of the export and import can we begin to suspect foul play. There is far too much volume of trade in the 148/174 world to constantly suspect this kind of fraud. One can't inspect everything."
"Still,"
"this means we've found a weapon to threaten that company, does it not?"
"Unfortunately,"
"As a weapon, it's rather meager."
"Why?"
"He's reducing the number of boxes shipped by three and profiting via the reduced taxes and transport costs. If this comes to light, the Jean Company will either have to pay penalties or lose their credibility as a trading company. But..."
"But the difference between that penalty and the profit from the wolf bones is too great. 'Tis the same as when we bought these clothes, is it not?"
"That's right. It might've been just the right weapon to use if they were only chasing the wolf tale for fun."
"Aye, well, that just means the problem's a large one. 'Tis better this than something solved with the trade of a single apple."
"Quite right. If one method won't work, we'll just move on to the next."
"If we're thinking of our next move, our problem becomes this: When will Eve depart this town? Judging by what she said, it seems like she wants to free herself from the troublesome ties she has here. She likely plans to leave and not return for some time. And if Reynolds knows that-"
"She'll tell him what she knows, and soon."
"Which means there's naught to do but seduce her."
"Hmph."
"Mr. Lawrence. Mr. Kraft Lawrence."
"Ah, you're still here."
"Quite. Is something the matter?"
"Yes, I was asked to give this to you."
"To me?"
"Come to the Lydon Inn... Want to discuss statues. For details, talk to the... innkeeper?"
"Aha, I see. Very good, sir. Will you be traveling alone?"
"Come alone."
"Very good, sir. I'll prepare a fast carriage. Please wait just a moment."
"Er... yes,"
"What was that all about?"
"I'm not really sure... oh, of course. This is an inn Eve recommended to me."
"Something urgent must have come up. She's going to quite a bit of trouble."
"Will you be all right alone?"
"I'll make sure to seduce her well."
"Fool,"
"Will you be safe alone?"
"If she wanted to put me in danger, there are many other ways to do it. She must have some reason for this."
"..."
"It's all right, Miss Holo. I'll be here with you while Mr. Lawrence is out."
"So there it is, then. Seems young Col will be watching over me while you're away."
"Well, I'll be off, then. If anyone suspicious comes by, don't open the door for them. You never know - it might be a wolf."
"Without good news, I don't know that I'll be able to stay in my human form."
"I'll give you more details in the carriage, sir."
"I've brought a guest."
"Inside,"
"Surprised, are you?"
"It's cold out there. Close the door, if you would. No lock, though."
"Sorry to call you out so suddenly."
"... Not at all. I'm honored to be summoned for a secret rendezvous with a beautiful woman."
"A secret rendezvous, eh? Well, anyway, sit. Sadly, I've no servants,"
"It's a bit chilly as homes go."
"Still, I imagine it's nice and cool in the summertime."
"It's winter now,"
"So much the better. It'll be warm if you get out."
"Heh. Right you are. I'd love to get out; the sooner the better."
"So why here?"
"Why are you locked up here?"
"You would hide your weapons of last resort, too, would you not?"
"... I would, it's true."
"Of course, the reason I'm locked up in here at sword point isn't because of this contract. Nor did I call you out here to suggest you cross some dangerous bridge with me."
"Still, I'm glad you let yourself be caught. If things go badly, I'll need my bread torn into rather small pieces tonight."
"The reason I called you is indeed the commotion in the town - you noticed it, yes?"
"Yes... something about the fishermen's boats from this side of town docking in the south, was it?"
"Indeed. It's as though God timed it. The news reached us as we were leaving the delta and returning to this side. It's like a different town across the river. We'd be recognized, so once the rioting started we couldn't cross. Even though our spies made it to the south side, there wasn't time for them to return."
"As I'm sure you've guessed, there's information I need. I reckon you were at that delta guild house right up until the last moment. What did you hear there, I wonder?"
"I know a bit."
"Even a bit is fine."
"A ship affiliated with this side was brought in by a south-side vessel. I don't know the cargo, but it was worth protecting with armed guards, and it was worth bringing directly to the church."
"... Is that hearsay?"
"My companion got quite close to the church evidently,"
"So that's it, is it?"
"I'm glad you're not some stingy-talking small fry."
"Ah, but if I were a big fish, I wouldn't have to come when called."
"True enough. But when you're a big fish, the world is filled with passages too narrow for you to pass."
"So are you telling me to go down a small passage?"
"You're in a unique position in this town. You don't have any proper connections here, but you're able to have a pleasant conversation with someone that many in this town are very eager to connect with."
"Of course, I won't say it's free. The story was told to me by the lot that locked me up in here, and their bellies are too large for them to fit through its paths."
"I've only meager coin and goods, sadly, but I've more than enough connections and influence. It'll be a good footing for business."
"And not a yoke?"
"... Yes, a yoke."
"Aren't you going to ask me how I got this wound?"
"How'd you get it?"
"Well played. It's not that I'm asking you only because you're in the best position."
"But I'm also not badly placed to cross that dangerous bridge."
"My exploiting a gap and your protecting what you have are not the same thing."
"Indeed. My conversations with my companion cut me to the bone."
"There's no longer much doubt. The north-side fisherman caught a narwhal."
"A nar-"
"Don't worry, he's not such cheap help that he'd eavesdrop on me. The people who locked me up here are terrified I'll get angry, even though they did this to me."
"A narwhal? As in the immortal sort?"
"Yes. A horned sea monster. Eating its flesh brings longevity, and its powdered horn cures all diseases."
"I'd heard that without freezing water they die, so how would one make it this far south?"
"According to the sailors, depending on the severity of the weather, fish and other creatures can be driven south - though I'd never heard of that happening to a narwhal. When they're trafficked, it's almost always deer bones or horns."
"But... surely that doesn't mean-"
"Yes. If they have the narwhal, the north-side faction believes they can turn everything around."
"The south-side faction wants to control this side at any cost. They can't have equality. It would be bad enough if the north gets the narwhal and sells it to raise the money to pay their debts, and the possibility that they might just involve a landed lord and go straight to war can't be ruled out, either. So the south can't let them have it, no matter the cost. They'll steal it, sell it - two birds, one stone. It will raise an enormous amount."
"So what say you? If you can slip through this passage, don't you think something incredible awaits you on the other side?"
"Will you do it? No..."
"What will it take to convince you to do it?"
"If I say I'll consider it?"
"About the wolf remains, was it?"
"You've good instincts, so I'm sure you noticed that Reynolds is quite serious about them. And that he wants my help."
"... You knew, and you still wrote me that letter."
"Are you angry?"
"Not at all. I'm glad my guess was right."
"There aren't many in the north who can afford wood for their fireplaces. Most burn peat."
"And yet I hear there's more charity on this side."
"Heh. That lad will be popular no matter where he goes."
"So how about it? It's quite an opportunity, I reckon."
"Oh, I'm sure it is."
"Did you see Kieman?"
"I reckon my name would be sure to come up if you went to the guild house looking for information. I can see his face now,"
"Yes, quite... he's a great merchant, as I recall."
"He certainly is. There's a gifted trader in every guild, and he's the one,"
"So, why do you mention this Mr. Kieman?"
"He's no one to be trifled with, and he's been chasing me obsessively. Can't blame me for feeling threatened, eh?"
"... Quite."
"Anyway, he's a formidable man, no question. He's burned me several times over."
"Hey."
"Yes?"
"If it comes down to that, what would you say to dropping the guild?"
"Where would a merchant who'd left his guild go?"
"You should come work for me,"
"For you?"
"Yes. Come work for me."
"Bolan Company."
"I'm locked up in here on the orders of the guy who gave me this wound,"
"He's the grandson of one of the landowners that originally signed the delta marketplace contracts. He's two years younger than me, but his wits and drive for wealth are about the same as mine. And he holds them about as dearly as I do."
"He dreams of getting out of this town. Talks with a straight face of getting the narwhal and using the money to head south and found a great trading company. 'With you I could outwit the old men,' he raged, and struck me with his left hand, then grabbed me by the shoulder."
"There's no way not to betray this, don't you think?"
"Kieman is trying to use me."
"He knows that wayward son is madly in love with me, you see. So he'll contrive to deceive the son through me."
"His goal is to choke the life out of the landowners. Most likely, he'll try to get them to sign a contract that gives him the rights to the land in exchange for handing over the narwhal. The titles will go to Kieman, and the narwhal will be stolen by the son. You would think it absurd, no? Well, just watch me give the plan to that wayward son. When's the actual answer, you ask?"
"You've gotten past the love affair."
"Kieman, of course, understands why I'm thinking about all of this. The old men hate change. We'd be best rid of these circumstances, but for long years there's been no way to change them. That's true for both the north and south sides. And it's also true that the younger generation is frustrated. I'll bet Kieman's been going mad trying to figure something out, some way to overturn the strange balance of Kerube and reform the town, along the way outwitting the other companies and trade guilds and making a real name for himself. Cleverly, rationally, and for his own reasons."
"Or at least that's the picture the trap you've surely readied is using."
"I have no way of verifying the truth of these things you've said. So on what do you suppose I should found my decision?"
"Your past experiences."
"I've been deceived before."
"Indeed, you have. But a wise merchant said something, once."
"Suspect deception, but be deceived,"
"I assume your answer is 'nay'?"
"Kieman will most likely ask for your cooperation, since you're in such an exceedingly convenient position. And by the way..."
"Ted Reynolds of the Jean Company wants to use my connections. If I wish him to, I'm sure I can have him whisper the name of the person he wishes to do business with to me. You were following the stories of the wolf bones, weren't you?"
"If you think I'm unarmed, you're quite mistaken."
"You'll regret it."
"Tell no one,"
"Sir, please."
"Something came for you,"