
"Mm"
"Now then, perhaps some wine."
New Convo:

"mine development"
"Achoo."
"Hnng-"
"Water."
"Still more of... this scenery for a time, eh..."
"Ah... yes."
"So how long will this take?"
"Eh? Ah, er, about six days at the most."
"I wonder if the town will be lively."
"Out of sight, out of mind"
"I've heard it's lively, but... that might mean by northlands standards,"
"What do you mean?"
"Going all the way to Lesko puts us completely outside the Ploania region."
"Look at this."
"These are the fourteen main coins in circulation that I got from the money changer. This is because political power in the northlands is chopped up and divided all over the place. So, you can't get by with just one kind."
"With so many coins about, people don't accept any coins they haven't seen before, which means a lot of time spent at the money changer's, which makes it hard to do business. Since it's hard to do business, there aren't very many merchants. That means few guests, and it also means little entertainment. People often say more currencies equals more headaches. Even in this batch I traded for, there are a number of coins I don't recognize. I don't know exactly what value they should be exchanged for. If it's so uncertain and troublesome, you'd want to conduct trade somewhere else, yes?"
"Well, certainly simpler 'tis better,"
"Hand me more meat!"
"The Myuri mercenaries, you ask?"
"... Aye."
"I wasn't able to gather all that much."
"At most it numbers about forty people, making it a quite small mercenary company. According to the guild in Delink, they expected to deploy at the fringes of Yoitsu. By historical standards, the current captain is still very young. Also, its flag is a wolf howling toward the sky."
"Aye."
"Ah, and also."
"Aye?"
"It seems the captain is particularly skilled and daring."
"And he would seem to be as handsome as I am."
"Hmph. Fear not. Myuri had the plainer looks of the two of you."
"Good to know."
"What, did you think I would choose based on appearance alone?"
"Not at all."
"Were I to, I would choose Col before the likes of you."
"If not him, then... who was that young man in that town who had his heart set on me again?"
"... Amati, eh...?"
"Aye. That is the one. I would choose him, then."
"Well, I wouldn't choose you for your face ei... th..."
"None can claim I am anything but fetching."
"I suppose that's true,"
"So, shall we truly meet them in Lesko, I wonder?"
"If we don't meet them there, we'll just have more fun going to find them."
"Aye. The more fun the better."
"Well, chances are we'll meet them without any trouble."
"Just think of all the fun you would have if I became angry and ran off and you went searching for me."
"I'm sure it would be fun. I'd find you driven to tears by an empty stomach, after all."
"'Twould seem they are high in spirits."
"And in a different direction than expected at that."
"Mmm, we'll find out when we get there soon enough."
"Don't worry."
"Are we truly in the right place...?"
"Seems rather enjoyable,"
"'Twould seem we were fools to have been worried so over this."
"What do you wish to do?"
"It goes without saying. We'll do what we came here for. Right?"
"I'll take good care of him, sir."
"Ready to go in?"
"If you are, aye."
"How may I help you?"
"I've heard that this is where the gentlemen of the Myuri Mercenary Company are staying."
"That is indeed correct but... did you come to sell something...?"
"No... actually, I heard about you from the Delink Company in the town of Lenos."
"Where's the captain?"
"The strategist should be on the second floor,"
"Unfortunately the captain is absent, but you can see the strategist."
"Well, then,"
"Ah."
"Mm? What?"
"Oh, selling are we? A nun's a bit rare."
"You are the captain of the Myuri Mercenary Company, I presume?"
"Mm, indeed I am... what, you're from Delink?"
"Ah, my mistake. I was sure you'd come selling. Ah, how rude of me. Certainly she's a bit too beautiful to be merchandise."
"I am indeed Luward Myuri of the Myuri Mercenary Company. And you?"
"Claw..."
"You can tell this is a claw?"
"Inside."
"I have something to ask you."
"And I as well?"
"That's right. No one is to enter this room or even the rooms above or below it."
"As you command,"
"I can't be issuing commands while drinking wine, now can I? Heroic tales in books are just the thing to inspire courage and drive one's fears away."
"Now, then, let's get down to this, shall we?"
"How did you know this is a claw?"
"Scent."
"You don't look like an affluent merchant at first glance, but, ah, pardon me. But the Delink Company is stricter about acting in its selfinterest than we are. Furthermore, you even have a letter of introduction from the famous shopkeeper Philon. Who in the world are you?"
"Where did you get this?"
"Are you asking as to the place?"
"little girl,"
"What's your objective?"
"Answer me."
"That's my line."
"Answer me,"
"It seems there's been a misunderstanding. I did not seize this."
"I inherited this from my father."
"And my father inherited it from his father."
"And what of the name Myuri?"
"It's all right. I'm not angry."
"Might I ask what is your name?"
"Holo."
"How can that be possible?!"
"Paro, Kiris, Yue, Inti, Shariemin."
"... I heard them many times from my father."
"I heard even more from my grandfather."
"The first captain received this when the mercenary company was founded."
"It says, 'It's been a while.'"
"Our Great Guardian Wolf, we have finally fulfilled our promise to you."
New Convo:

"It's a matter of life and death."
"Leave me be for a while."
"Don't go drinking wine now."
"Fool."
"I'll let you know if I'm leaving the inn."
"Have a minute?"
"Let's use my room,"
"As you like."
"It's all right, there's no need to be nervous."
"I'm still shaking, too."
"I haven't gotten your name yet."
"Lawrence. Kraft Lawrence."
"Kraft Lawrence. A fine name. From the Polan region?"
"No, Rowen."
"A Rowen merchant you say... so, you're in violation of orders by being in this city, are you not?"
"That's right, so I'm no one at all here."
"Well, let's have a toast. If you're afraid of poison, I can drink both cups myself."
"To chance meetings and checkered fates."
"I wish my father and grandfather could have been here, though."
"Even now I can't believe it. Far likelier you're some swindler playing an elaborate trick on me."
"I expected you might think as much."
"When one battles from morning till night, sometimes one treads on the boundary between this world and the next."
"Whether by God or Death, many times something tells us when Doom lies just ahead. I'm aware such stories are especially numerous in our group. But many think that rather than God extending his hand to us, it is something... else. In other words..."
"In other words, that it has something to do with our banner."
"I think it must be so. Or could it possibly be her doing...?"
"Holo, you mean?"
"... Is it really all right to just call her that?"
"Being called a god and worshiped as such doesn't really agree with her."
"Maybe I have some of that blood running through me. I still hate being called captain."
"Yeah, some of the men believe our ancestors were wolves, but my father and grandfather firmly denied it, to the point of anger even."
"Anger?"
"Yeah. Apparently our ancestor who founded the group met a certain wolf, and as they aided each other, they created a group. The wolf 's name - was Myuri."
"But one side was aided much more than the other, it seems. Thus we came to pay a great deal of reverence toward wolves. That's why... yes. Our blankets must always be of the pelts of the fox or the deer, even though it adds to our expenses."
"But it was easy to believe it was a made-up story to build a company around, like plenty of other legends."
"I've heard that as a matter of fact, people living a life of battle never knowing when it'll end rely on those stories to get them through the day more than anything else. I thought it was something like that, too."
"And to think... it's true."
"There are many tales passed down to me from generation to generation. Prominent even among them is that of Wisewolf Holo. That should we ever encounter her, we must convey the message engraved upon the claw."
"She'd been in a village far from here for centuries. But she forgot the way home and was unable to return. So I am seeing her there."
"Seeing her there?"
"I am guiding her there."
"This is what makes the world interesting. You don't know what's going to happen or who you're going to meet. But that's why there's always something to worry about."
"Let me ask you frankly. Did you come here to destroy the Debau Company?"
"No. Nor do I think it is possible."
"But we are certainly concerned about Yoitsu."
"I see."
"... Mm, I see..."
"If all it took was saying something like 'Lend us your strength to destroy the Debau Company,' our journey might have gone a little more smoothly,"
"If I can say one thing for the honor of my men..."
"For the sake of our company banner, we face even the most desperate battles with all our might. No one runs away, not until the last drop of blood of the battle is shed."
"But that is why orders are such a frightening thing."
"So if Holo and I asked for it, the Myuri Mercenary Company would risk their lives fighting for us..."
"That is correct."
"I'm sure Holo has thought along the same lines as well. However, we've learned on the course of our journey that there are many things in this world we cannot do - meeting friends from the distant past, for instance."
"... However, there is something else that I would like to ask here, in Holo's place."
"If Yoitsu is safe?"
"As a matter of fact, it is safe."
"As a matter of fact, it is safe."
"It is said even murmurs at a great distance do not escape Holo the Wisewolf."
"Barring the worst of circumstances, I think that's largely correct."
"But that means you haven't gone to Yoitsu yet?"
"That's right. We obtained a map, but... we decided that before going there, we should meet the Myuri Mercenary Company first."
"Mm, I see. People come first. On that point, I'm sorry I only bear the name of Myuri."
"That's all right,"
"I jest. "Yoitsu's safe. Right now it's one part of a region called Tolkien. Even within that area, people don't really go in or out; it's a closed forest."
"But in the time before we arrived here, we heard plenty of ill rumors about the Debau Company, enough to make us think of hiring someone of your lofty caliber to deploy."
"Just Leward is fine,"
"The Debau Company is trying to conquer the whole of the northlands. The Debau Company is trying to tear up all the northlands for precious metals. The Debau Company is... like that, you mean."
"Indeed."
"But when you actually arrived in town, there wasn't a single trace of war. The town's full of activity, the merchants are diligently making money, and so forth."
"Indeed."
"There's probably few who've come to this town who thought otherwise."
"There's talk of war. There's talk of dangerous dealings. That place is finally gonna get it, and so forth. "Anyway, dangerous talk like this has been spreading among dangerous people - like us - since, oh, autumn of last year. A while after that, people who believed and people who didn't started gathering here in twos and threes. Once the Great Northern Campaign was canceled, people who didn't find other work and had nowhere else to go came here... and got caught up in a strange situation."
"The Debau Company offered us lodging. Food, too."
"Wha-?"
"It's the same for pretty much all the other mercenary companies. It got us excited. If they're being this generous, the war's for real, we all said."
"Anyway, this situation's continued for us for two weeks now; for the group that's been here the longest, two months. Can you believe it? They say the Debau Company's currently paying out twenty lumione gold pieces per day to maintain us here. And yet-"
"These are documents for swearing oaths to the Debau Company. 'Under your patronage, we shall be thy sword and thy shield...' and so forth. Normally, we exchange these documents for gold, hire some 59/217 men with it, fill our bellies with meat and wine, get drunk, and sally forth to the battlefield. But the Debau Company wouldn't accept these."
"Wouldn't accept?"
"The talk is, they don't know how powerful nobles are going to move. That the Debau Company is closely watching which way they'll go and won't move until it's sure. Well, that I can understand. In this land, if you don't know who's working with whom and where, you'll make a critical mistake, and that means dying on some lonely, narrow snow-covered path. "There's talk among the nobles that they're dragging the decision out while feeding the soldiers to garrison the town with more troops than they can possibly support. That's possible, too, and in fact, we are eating for free. The Debau Company isn't deciding where to invade, isn't positioning military forces, and all we have to worry about day to day is deciding what to pick from the menu."
"So, Yoitsu is safe. Though 'for now' is all I can really say."
"I see your point..."
"However..."
"The Debau Company is unusually clever. Right now, to a greater or lesser extent, the people assembled in Lesko have connections to the northlands. Among them are those, like you, who think of the northlands as most precious. We are no exception to that."
"We're thinking of taking position here. However, we're not foolish enough to subjugate our own homeland, especially now that we know Holo the Wisewolf truly exists."
"... To defend it, then?"
"In a sense. That's to say, there are a number of paths in Tolkien used by hunters and hermits that stretch into the Sverner region to the northeast. If there is war, the Sverner outskirts are geographically and politically significant, so it'll definitely get mixed up in the fighting. If the people there run, part of them will follow those paths straight to Tolkien. We intend to put a stop to that."
"... And therefore, the slave-trading Delink Company."
"Yes. Every village there is barely scraping by. There'll be wounded soldiers, of course, but most following those paths will be fleeing civilians. The moment they arrive, those villages are finished. We were to capture them as slaves, protect the villages, and make money off it, too. The Delink Company's legendary for good clientele, so add prisoners for ransom and we'd be fat on a bit of treasure and refinements by the time we got home."
"The Debau Company's been extremely proactive in heading us off from that kind of plan."
"Meaning?"
"It seems they're assigning jobs, taking into account people not wanting to tear up their homelands."
"But it's not possible for them to put everyone in defensive roles like that?"
"For better or worse, the Debau Company is a mine operator. And not everyone thinks mine development is a calamity."
"Ah."
"Exactly. Shaving off mountains, cutting down the forests, making money digging up copper and silver - in the towns, there are a lot of people who think it's great and are all for it. Of course everyone has someplace precious to them, but the rest of the world may burn. The Debau Company slips through those cracks. Take any group of people, and a bunch of them are from cold villages with good ore deposits in their homeland and want development. The Debau Company cooperates with those afraid of it. Of course, it cooperates with those who welcome it with open arms. This way it minimizes the hatred of people in the land, making taking control of the northlands go well. It's 62/217 possible that detaining so many mercenaries and knights here with food and lodging is to make that feat work all the better."
"In the end it's all rumor. People think of all kinds of things when they have time on their hands."
"All right, that's enough."
"I'm sure Holo is thankful as well."
"Too bad I can't solve all your problems, though."
"Life is too long for every problem to have a simple solution."
"Ha-ha. How true."
"Well, that's how it is. I'm still happy I fulfilled the promise in my father and grandfather's places. Not for that reason, but by all means, I wish to ease the strains of your travels. By the way, the Debau Company's paying for this, too."
"Let's go outside."
"But it might be cold out there, so bundle up."
"Good!"
"Do you want something to eat?"
"That hurts."
"... Sorry."
"If only I'd done such and such."
"Oh, there's a square over there. Busy here in the morning."
"I shall not smile this moment."
"I don't mind."
"However, I am grateful."
"It's... good to hear you say that."
"I always seem to be hitting wide of the mark, after all."
"However..."
"Better to avoid odd subjects?"
"I don't know any more than what Luward and I spoke about yesterday anyway. You heard us, didn't you?"
"If you ask, I'm sure he'd tell you the old stories handed down through the company, down to all the little details. If you're afraid to ask alone, I can ask with you."
"I would ask this of you."
"A rare and commendable thing, coming from you."
"Well, I don't mind if you have stories to share, either."
"later,"
"Your jealousy is inconvenient."
"There's an important saying about trade. If both traders want to think they made a good bargain, better to not know how much money the other made."
"Rubbish,"
"How about we go see the artisan district? Or... better to listen to the singing here?"
"I suppose I'd like to take a look around, to be honest."
"That works, too."
"Hmph."
"Me, too?"
"... How about that?"
"This is mostly water, 'tis it not?"
"They boil the alcohol in that big cauldron on the sheet copper; then when the steam runs through the pipe they attach, they cool it, and concentrated alcohol comes out of the end of the pipe. The finished product is inside, I'm sure."
"I suppose we're in the Debau Company's backyard - no surprise there's all this metalworking."
"It might be a migrant town."
"... This place really is something, though..."
"continue their training,"
"This town does not regulate craftsmen in any way whatsoever. Those of skill should open a workshop and employ whoever they wish. Lesko welcomes all craftsmen of excellence. Freedom to all people."
"A traveler?"
"I did not believe it at first, either, but it's true."
"Let's go,"
"everyone"
"I want this,"
"Available for twelve hundred trenni silver pieces. - The Vhans Company."
"Ho..."
"Er...?"
"Mm! Mm?"
"I shall go purchase another."
"Waste not, want not,"
"In the end, 'tis for the best."
"Huh?"
"You probably forgot about me where they were pounding metal as well."
"You go out into town and become such a pup. What's this, what's that, how about here? What's over there?"
"So, in the end 'tis for the best."
"...?"
"Do you intend to make me say more?"
"You really are happy as a foolish hound."
"Sorry, could we go back to the inn?"
"It's been a long time, so I want to sketch this store."
"You don't want to buy it instead?"
"Buying something cheap can mean wasting your coin, after all. I need to calm myself down first."
"I must warn you, the regret of letting a purchase go is bitter wine, indeed."
"That's all right. You know better than anyone how I get worked up about things, yes?"
"You truly are a fool."
"I do not think much sunlight shall reach here."
"Oh, this one's so much bolder,"
"Oh, your sense is that of a fool"
"This is the sunniest place... aye. This is a suitable place for me to sleep."
"Properly speaking, this is where the owner..."
"Is there no place for me in your store, I wonder?"
"Er-"
"Surely 'tis not so?"
"If you say anything strange, all my hard work shall go to waste."
"Aah-"
"If the company's future is in doubt with one set of hands, isn't two better?"
"There's no time,"
"I have to travel my trade route - I can't keep on traveling with you forever,"
New Convo:

"You want to ask about the state of the town, you say?"
"Yes. This morning I went around town a little, but from the perspective of a merchant, everything I saw was of exceedingly deep interest."
"Aye... certainly, there are a number of things in this town that differ from other towns."
"I saw a slate in the artisans' district that stated this town does not regulate craftsmen."
"I see. So that was why the two of you stood frozen in front of the store for sale."
"It is indeed so. Furthermore, I have heard that it has been so for quite some time."
"In other words, even though other merchants are setting up shops in this town, there are still no regulations?"
"That is correct."
"In particular, there is no guild hall here belonging to the guild, which I am a member of. Or rather, someone from that guild pounded 92/217 into me not to have anything to do with this place. However, viewed from another perspective..."
"It is the perfect opportunity to leap ahead of them, in other words?"
"Based on my experience being in this town a short while, I do not believe the regulations issue is a problem whatsoever."
"And, Master Lawrence, you noticed the state of the town, did you not?"
"Certainly, I thought it might be so. The artisans' district resembled the towns in the south, and the youngster who takes care of this inn's stable was not born in this region, either, was he?"
"You are indeed correct. This is a town of immigrants."
"But it has not been for very long, nor have they spread word far and wide. No doubt they do not wish to antagonize towns and rulers in the vicinity. After all, it is some ways removed from the mountains that are the wellspring of the Debau Company's abundant minerals."
"There is a populous town in the southern imperial outskirts, beyond Ploania and well to the south beyond that. It's connected by sealanes to the western coastline. You seem to have come here from Lenos, but you were unable to gather much information about Lesko, I imagine?"
"The merchants of that town knew little about it."
"It seems this was originally a town built by the Debau Company for only Debau Company people to live in. However, even though the town flaunts how full of activity it is, the Debau Company has become an unobtrusive presence, as if it gently misplaced the entire town."
"The Debau Company did not easily come about its current status and profitability, after all. They have come this far by evading exploitation by numerous powerful parties, allying with one to foil another over and over again. The company grew by such dangerous methods largely because many people in it were refugees from their home nations with nothing left to lose and nowhere else to go."
"In other words,"
"Those who have been hurt become gentler toward others. Well, even if that is overstating it, they have broken with past custom and prejudice. The Debau Company might be controlled by strange people, but more than that, they truly seem to believe you can assemble people in the name of freedom and have it work. The talk concerning the northlands... I presume you have heard from the captain?"
"I think it would be marvelous if it could be done, and it seems to be actually occurring. More than anything, the scale of quality from Lesko's craftsmen is top-notch."
"Today one cannot live by the sword alone, not only in the south but anywhere in this world. "By sprinkling around 'freedom' as bait, one can assemble a mountain of unbelievably skilled individuals. Hence, this town."
"This town shall develop in quite unbelievable ways in the days to come."
"So you see, Master Lawrence, I believe you would be absolutely correct to set up a store here. "You were drawn in by talk of conflict, but having actually come, you have seen how it is. I believe that as a matter of fact, the Debau Company is highly unlikely to wage war."
"I've heard that the best chance for victory is just after the war is over, though."
"It is good to be young."
"Nguuh..."
"Mm?"
"Mm"
"What about lunch?"
"Mm... just a bit."
"There's a mountain of berries packed in our luggage."
"Hup"
"Decide how much you're going to eat. We don't have an endless supply."
"Well, I shall do as you say for once."
"You seem to have endured enough, after all."
"Truly you understand nothing."
"?"
"So, what did you sneak off for while I was asleep?"
"Writing a letter to that shepherd girl, perhaps?"
"Do not go thinking about other females,"
"Do you understand who is the master of whom, I wonder?"
"I'm sure you'd be in tears again if I snuck off and did that. I thought I'd write one after asking permission."
"Aye. Good attitude."
"So you're fine if I write one?"
"Hmm. Well, it's fine."
"So, what are you doing there?"
"Counting how much gold I have. Things haven't been calm enough in town for it until now."
"Mmph."
"Perhaps I... eat too much?"
"Don't be angry. It's not that - these are revenue and expenditures for everything until now. It's hard to calm down and make financial calculations with you making my eyes spin all the time."
"... What? You are making me ill..."
"Oh, nothing."
"What's this? You are actually turning a profit."
"That money is precious."
"Of course it is! Who do you suppose I am?!"
"You went through much trouble to acquire this, did you not?"
"Your jokes are so difficult to comprehend."
"You truly do take a liking to that 104/217 scrawny girl,"
"So, what do you think?"
"Mm? Ah, it'd be nice to have a store if I could."
"Hmmm."
"The people of that village trust me,"
"The people in that store are priceless treasures,"
"If I were to get a shop, where would be good?"
"Did you suppose I would suggest aught else, after you made such a face in front of that store for sale?"
"I'm sure you wouldn't. You're too kind for that."
"... I concede you are good at that, at least."
"I'm a merchant, after all."
"Hmph."
"Well, if the Whatever Company here does do something that displeases me..."
"... I shall retire from the fray like a timid maiden."
"There are many towns. I don't intend to obsess over this one. But..."
"... Do you mind my looking into it, at least?"
"... Have you become wiser while I slept?"
"Quite conceited for a fool, are you not?"
"Aye, I do not mind looking into it. I am with you either way."
"Oh, so you like me like this, hmm?"
"That's a big help."
"Hmh"
"This town, you say?"
"If you can answer, it would be grand, but..."
"I think it's a splendid town for trading, but I'm sure you've looked into that part. I don't mind the atmosphere at all, either."
"Atmosphere, you say?"
"Actually, I wasn't born in this town but..."
"I came here on a ship from the south. It took weeks, and a plague broke out that killed my friends. But..."
"If I were to write a letter, I'd write it to the town where I was born. I'd tell them everyone should come here."
"What do you think makes it so good? The liveliness? Or is there something else?"
"This place has freedom."
"Let's try other places."
"Maybe we just had a bad first impression."
"Not that I like blithely accepting it, though."
"However, I heard no lies in what the townspeople said to us."
"So, what will you do?"
"What to do, I wonder...?"
"What is it?"
"Mm? Ah."
"I thought that 'tis a waste to walk about a nice town like this filled with suspicions."
"I suppose so"
"'Tis indeed a rather enjoyable place."
"And it has good food?"
"Good wine as well. 'Tis also lively. 'Tis such a shame to walk around trying to expose the evil works of the Whatever Company. You ceased to see all the enjoyable parts of the town the instant you thought you might well get a store here."
"You have put a lot of thinking into laying the groundwork to get a store. But one word can change how you think or the way you look at a town like this, can it not?"
"To get a shop, huh. Ah yes. There's something important I haven't looked at yet."
"Mm? Something has come to mind?"
"Well, come with me."
"Changing money once again?"
"At any rate, it's completely different from what we'd heard, so I have to question the prices in Lenos, too."
"What, you were fooled again?"
"Be quiet and come on."
"I don't need your business, you need mine."
"I'd like to do an exchange."
"Mm..."
"Whuaa... uuu..."
"Curses. Ah, pardon me. Bad speaking habits."
"So, changing money?"
"Yes,"
"You're an odd one."
"By... which you mean?"
"Ahh, my mouth moved by itself again... I mean, there's lots of other money changers. To come to someone with no one lined up like me, you sure that's all right? You're a merchant, right?"
"Having a line in front of you doesn't necessarily make for a good money changer."
"That much is true."
"The ones in the lineups are all travelers, aren't they?"
"Mmm... good eye. Very troublesome, I tell you."
"So, what are you changing into what?"
"I want to exchange trenni silver pieces for something used often in this area."
"Mm... mm..."
"Five lutes will be fine."
"Where did you come here from?"
"From Lenos."
"When you exchanged there, they gave you a mountain of small coins didn't they?"
"You were fooled again."
"Yes. Fourteen different kinds."
"Ha-ha-ha. Well, they probably didn't mean anything bad by it, but that's a shame. You'd have been better off keeping your trenni silver pieces."
"But you're not lining up in front of money changers with lineups because you wanna make sure of the purity of the coinage being traded, am I right?"
"There's that as well, but your establishment's clientele is mainly people from this town, yes?"
"What's the coin most trusted by the town's merchants?"
"Trenni silver pieces."
"Ha-ha. You're surprised because you don't know about the lumione gold piece market price, I take it?"
"... Eh? The lumione gold piece?"
"Forty trenni silver pieces."
"Twenty-seven pieces."
"Ha-ha."
"Huh?"
"Twenty-seven pieces. Of course, you can't convert them here. You should go to the exchange run by the Debau Company. "Line up twenty-seven trenni silver pieces, and they'll cough up one lumione gold piece."
"Where d'ya think this town is? Backyard of the Debau Company, running the biggest mining belt under the sun. A shame they can't get gold straight out of the mountains, but tons of silver and copper come out. The folks from down south pay with shiny lumione gold pieces. That's why gold coins are cheap here."
"Er, but twenty-seven coins, that's just..."
"Haven't you seen the market? Go buy a few things, and you'll notice the difference between this and other towns."
"Most every merchant who comes here gets the same look you have. If you don't believe me, just go to the market and buy something. They probably told you Praz copper coins were the easiest to use, right? But no one wants to accept a piece of garbage copper coin no one can use like that. It'll cost you."
"Everyone wants to accept as good a coin as possible, even if it's a coin from the south. That's why this town gets called the northlands' southern enclave. Not many know about it, though."
"Miss. If you want him to buy you gold jewelry, I suggest you have him do it here."
"Oh ho,"
"Well, I've given you five lutes' worth of information. Come again!"
"Twenty-seven trenni pieces for a lumione."
"Hark, you,"
"You do not wish to pick another fight with me, do you?"
"... I do not."
"Then surely you have something you should do before wandering off by yourself?"
"ah"
"I don't think arguing with you lately has been that bad, though."
"Now you are getting it."
"Indeed. 'Tis a strange tale if your explanation holds true. So what has made your eyes so bloodshot? Did you notice something about that company?"
"No, that's not it."
"You see..."
"There's no guarantee coins will hold the same value everywhere and no guarantee someone will accept it. The currencies reissued only a few times maintaining a stable value are few and far between. If 120/217 word spread that the lumione gold piece, said to be the world's mightiest coin, was being traded at unheard-of low prices, there'd be a huge uproar."
"But none seems especially concerned about it,"
"N-not everyone in this world is a merchant, you know!"
"Oh my, I have upset you. And? I want to know more about this, too."
"... Well, even if the merchants realize it at the town's markets, there's no gain in making a fuss about it. It's better to not tell a soul and quietly try to work out how to profit from it yourself."
"And? How does one profit from this?"
"There are two ways to profit from it."
"Really."
"The first is to buy goods in this town."
"... Goods?"
"So it is true... look, they're unbelievably cheap."
"It looks like the merchandise comes here from the artisans' workshops in the area. See that well-made knife there? One and a half trenni silver pieces. In the mines' backyard, iron must be cheap, and at that market, fuel must be cheap, too... Look there, that bucket, it's huge and not one crack in it. You could probably kick it away and that wouldn't even scratch it. You can get three of those for a third of a trenni silver piece; guilds in other towns would go pale in the face if they saw that. Hey, come here, look at this. This amount of pigskin matting... can't believe it... wait, just bringing this to Lenos would..."
"Well, it's just that cheap,"
"You can buy low in this town and sell high in another. It's very simple, isn't it?"
"Aye. I understand how this could make you forget about me."
"... B-but there's an even simpler method. I think this would bring even more incredible profit."
"Just buy coins without purchasing goods at all."
"Here, if you pay twenty-seven trenni silver pieces, they'll give you one gold coin, yes? So, exchange silver for gold, take the river down past Lenos all the way to Kerube, and sell the gold pieces there for thirty-five silver coins or so. Having exchanged for silver, you return here, exchange it for gold again. "Even though you started with twenty-seven silver coins, each return trip nets you one gold coin and eight silver coins. All you need to do is repeat it over and over."
"If that was true, would not everyone be doing it?"
"They probably are."
"Assuming my thinking is correct... if everyone was doing that, this town would run out of gold coins and silver coins would increase, yes? So would not the price of gold coins rise and the price of silver coins fall? Should the prices here not fall in line with those of other towns sooner or later?"
"That's correct. That's why I'm nervous."
"Whether to climb aboard while the situation lasts?"
"Well, such hardiness in you, I mind not."
"It's enough to make me want to run south with a bagful of silver coins right this moment."
"So, is there not something strange somewhere here?"
"Aye... it does feel like a strange story."
"Strange? In what way?"
"Mm... well... it's strange, but... how to put this..."
"I have it!"
"Give me a break."
"And?"
"Heh-heh"
"For a merchant like you not to notice..."
"... Well, pardon me."
"Well, of course, something of this level is obvious to me; I am Holo the Wisewolf, after all."
"If that story is true, why doesn't the Whatever Company do it?"
"... Eh?"
"According to that rather spirited old money changer, that company digs up and sells many things, and because it receives gold coins in return, gold coins are cheap here, yes?"
"Yeah."
"Then given that, 'tis a simple problem. Why does it not do so itself? 'Tis not strange?"
"But that's..."
"That company receives gold coins. So why does it not bring the entirety of those gold coins to another town? If it did so, it could 125/217 exchange the whole lot for silver coins, could it not? Why does it not, then? 'Twould be the most profitable method."
"No, there's something odd about that."
"Where is it odd?"
"No, it's really odd. What can this mean?"
"They must have kind of a goal."
"What do you think?"
"Ah."
"You may well ask me, but..."
"It seems that little by little, I've gained a place in your mind."
"Aye. And, just to mention, you really should be more aware of how much you speak to yourself."
"Wha-?"
"I jest. "Aye. I understand not the fine details but, at the very least, based on what I have observed, there is some structure at work, and its shape is a warped one. There is reason in this world, reason as unchanged by the centuries as I."
"So that company is indeed suspicious, 'tis it not?"
"When a magician has a chicken lay a blue egg, and it's not a blue chicken, you know there has to be some trick."
"All the more when 'tis a goose laying a golden egg."
"Hmm, 'tis like that."
"Mm?"
"'Tis been a while since I remembered how we met."
"The folks that come here? Of course, they come from all over; we're a mining town, after all. Some folks hate to come, but they even come from the Dran Steppe up north and the Wessel region out east. "Even if they trade locally, they'll never get anywhere. Here, they can sell everything they can haul, even if they've got to cross dangerous mountain trails to do it."
"Mmm..."
"Perhaps we should return to the inn for now."
"Ah, I suppose so... pacing back and forth while worrying really would be like a dog."
"Aye. I am Holo the Wisewolf after all. Careful thinking suits me far better than does walking."
"With a drink in your hand?"
"I have gained a fair interest in trading, if not to the same degree as you."
"For instance..."
"I am unaccustomed to gathering pieces one after another and thinking of how to put them all together as you do. I am more accustomed and better suited to thinking of one thing very carefully."
"Certainly, you tend to repeat the same things over and over again."
"So, there's a part tugging at me concerning about this..."
"... Tugging at you?"
"All this talk from you about coins reminds me of that bird country."
"Bird country? Ahh, the kingdom of Winfiel."
"Why does this town not end up like that country?"
"Like that country?"
"Aye."
"When we went around the marketplace, everyone there smelled of soil and water. People of the forests and mountains. That is to say, they do not come to this town very frequently. So I wondered, why do things not become like in that bird country?"
"In... in other words... ah, you mean everyone selling their own cargo and returning home with coins in return."
"Aye. Perhaps 'tis gold coins, perhaps 'tis silver. I wonder if 'tis not silver?"
"Mm? "In other words, no matter how much time passes the number of silver coins isn't increasing; if they're not careful, they'll fall into a severe currency shortage just like Winfiel."
"And in that bird country, you could eat to your heart's content on a single coin, could you not?"
"But that isn't happening... Ah, that's right. Never mind the market price, there's no extreme currency shortage that we can see anywhere. Which means..."
"Someone is bringing in a great deal of it?"
"Yes. It's making me think that, too. Perhaps the huge price spike in silver coins in Lenos was because large quantities were flowing up here."
"Ah, and also."
"Mm?"
"This place is awash with silver, yes? I wonder why they do not mint it themselves?"
"You need craftsmen to mint a coin, see. You need hammers for stamping. You engrave the design for the coin into metal. You put that below the base form of the coin and pound it from above. The craftsmen who make the hammers aren't likely to be let go by their king and to counterfeit them would be no different from an act of war against the kingdom of Trenni. Well, after that is the most important thing of all."
"Coins are always marked by the passage of time. They get shaved, they tarnish. If it's something new, you'll notice the new minting immediately. It pretty much can't be faked."
"Certainly, no matter how skillfully you dress it up, you cannot erase the fresh scent."
"Well, that's why pure maidens like it; it's just like them."
"At any rate, someone has to be steady bringing in silver coins."
"Hey."
"Mm?"
"What was the first impression you had of the Debau Company?"
"That one? That is..."
"Ah no. But how to put this... Er... all right, how about I put it like this. What did you expect this town to be like based on your impression of the Debau Company?"
"Probably the same as you did. Besides, we heard from that dancer girl on the ship on the river; a place with a lot of money, but no place for people to live, she said."
"Yeah, she did say that. But that's probably what a town that really is the entrance to a mine is like."
"Aye. And we did not know that. That is to say, we had no way to imagine what this town's atmosphere was like. We were not able to gather any information at the prior towns, were we?"
"So I was right."
"What about it?"
"Ah... er... I wondered if I'd missed something people had said or if I'd had a misconception about this town because of a failure of imagination."
"Indeed."
"But it doesn't feel like that. If you didn't hear anything, either, we really didn't hear anything about it. "Which means, it truly is strange. Even the talk of a silver coin influx feels inconsistent... It's not the number of coins, it's more fundamental than... Er... wait. Transporting silver coins?"
"Hey."
"Mm?"
"There's one obviously strange thing we discovered that bothers me more than the rest."
"I do not wish for preambles. What is it you wish to say?"
"It might sit poorly with you."
"And?"
"But... but through this we might be able to see the Debau Company's plan; furthermore, whether it's going to be bad for Yoitsu and the northlands. If it's not, this town might grant my longtime wish of having my own store."
"Aye. And?"
"I don't want you to hate me, but I won't kill my own curiosity, either."
"Mm. 'Tis not a problem, then. Though I know not what has come to your mind."
"Don't drink too much,"
"Gold coins don't well up out of the ground like a spring. That being the case, either the Debau Company's hiding something or someone else is hiding what they're doing. Or perhaps both."
"I see,"
New Convo:

"Oh, you looked around town? Was there anything interesting?"
"Yes, several things."
"We have merchants in our supply corps, but it feels odd to call them merchants. And Moizi here can do planning but not trading."
"Coins are too small for my hands."
"So for that reason, we'd like to hear your opinion, Mr. Lawrence. For various reasons, we are not blessed with the opportunity to befriend a merchant very often."
"I'm unsure I can fulfill such expectations, but..."
"... The thing that most surprised me is how cheap buildings are being sold."
"Ah, that's right... I heard from my subordinates that Mr. Lawrence and... Miss Holo had been in front of a building for sale."
"Yes, I'm a little embarrassed at having been seen like that."
"You shouldn't be. Many of our members who survive over the years save up and find a town to live in. It's a dream we can understand."
"But those prices really are low enough to shock, then?"
"Yes. Furthermore, this town doesn't seem to have small annoying guilds."
"That's correct. A number of our men seem to be thinking about staying behind here as well. Some are getting on in years and feeling their old wounds."
"Most of all, it's great to not have people asking questions."
"That's certainly the case. And there's money in it, too, I think."
"What do you mean?"
"The price of goods and the price of coin are both determined naturally, as if by the hand of God. Surely it is the same for the coin prices in this town. However, it is not always so."
"What appears to be decided by naturally comes from numerous people acting in their own interests."
"The coin prices in this town surprised me more than the low prices of buildings. However, even if all of this is by the hand of God, God is not responsible for everything."
"In other words, let's say there's an unusual deviation in this town's prices, say in coins, trenni silver pieces in this case. Even if they accumulated in this town by natural circumstance, there would absolutely not be an accumulation of silver coins alone."
"So there has to be someone bringing coins in."
"That's right. And when one person moves, it always attracts the attention of other people. After all, I didn't have any idea about this town's currency movements whatsoever."
"?"
"Even in Lenos, there was extremely little information about this town. In other words, it means virtually no one travels from there to here."
"At first, I thought the price slippage was a recent, sudden thing, but when going around the marketplace I had no sense of that whatsoever. In the first place, when asking questions of people who'd come here from various places in the northlands, I felt like they were obtaining 144/217 trenni silver pieces. A currency you can put faith into is a precious thing after all. And having obtained trenni silver pieces, a strong currency they can have faith in, they apparently return to their homelands. That being the case, the constant outflow of silver coins should give rise to a sudden currency shortage. I've seen it with my own eyes in the kingdom of Winfiel. The movements of currency, in other words, the movements of merchants, are very sensitive, like rats fleeing the sinking ship."
"I thought that perhaps the Debau Company was bringing silver coins in itself, but if that were indeed the case, someone would notice. As the Debau Company is maintaining the prices of gold and silver coins by guaranteeing the rate of exchange, the difference in the price of gold and silver coins can't be explained any other way. So, there's only one possibility I could think of."
"Someone's secretly bringing coins in through the back door?"
"As an ordinary merchant, I know few details about the world of battle. I don't know how much information is in circulation around the world and how much is kept secret."
"Why do you say that?"
"Because for a merchant like me, buying a store is a once-in-a-lifetime affair. I want to be sure of what's going on in this town and also to predict where it is going."
"That is kept secret."
"That is kept secret. It's one reason to be moving around with a large amount of cargo, after all."
"She's running low on wine, Moizi."
"Furthermore, we're a large family. Lodging at an inn requires a lot of food. Just sending people out to buy it every day is quite something."
"It must be even harder procuring supplies like shoes and clothing."
"But if we all go to a store, they think we're a bunch of bandits."
"If you like, Mr. Lawrence,"
"I'll bring some wine up after the meal."
"I'd like that very much."
"Heh-heh. It seems you have been hard at work."
"So in the end, they are the ones bringing silver coins in?"
"So it seems. The rumors of war might have unwittingly been spread by the mercenaries themselves, too."
"Mm?"
"Through the market price and other things, the Debau Company lets it be known to mercenaries that they can make huge profits purely by bringing in a large quantity of silver coins. Since there are no bandits with the nerve to attack hardened mercenaries, they can make an easy profit in confidence. However, since it's idiotic for the mercenaries to talk about how they're making money when heading to Lesko, they spread rumors of Lesko invading the northlands instead."
"Indeed"
"But for what purpose?"
"Yes. That's the part I don't understand well. If they just want to bring silver coins in, they're better off doing it themselves. Maybe having these rumors spread is itself the objective."
"Let's say the Debau Company is plotting something for the northlands. So, to gather deeply suspicious, excellent knights and mercenaries together, they must first lure them in with easy profits. After that, 149/217 the masses spread rumors all around about the first group to come, and armed with information that they really are moving north, others assemble on their own. In other words, the Debau Company can lure numerous knights and mercenaries even without paying them."
"But just gathering knights and mercenaries together doesn't make them useful in a war..."
"You use what you assemble. The reasoning is sound."
"It has to be quite an ordeal to maintain the liveliness of a town of this level. Besides, based on Luward's suggestions, there's a reason the Debau Company is lavishly paying knights and mercenaries on its own."
"Indeed?"
"This town's great liveliness is a somewhat forced performance."
"Such a performance is meaningless,"
"Apparently the Debau Company is supplying money throughout the town through paying compensation for their inn lodging costs, shouldering the burden of paying for their tools, daily necessities, and so forth. At the very least, that's what Luward seems to think. That being the case, the Debau Company is clearly using its own money to make the town go well. I don't think the Debau Company, having gone this far for a town it built itself, would wreck it all with just one war."
"Did you notice something?"
"Not really. I merely think that thinking of war in terms of profit and loss is absurd."
"Well... that's true. Rulers start wars for all sorts of banal reasons, like grudges over disputes that have lasted for years and so forth, but... merchants never fight to defend anything except their own profits."
"Defend?"
"Right. Most of the tragedies of the world come about from trying to defend something. The foremost among these is territory."
"I'm sure you've experienced it? Something someone won't yield to another, even land that will never budge an inch, with people trampling on it like the approach of the largest storm. That's why tragedies take place."
"Well, then, is the Whatever Company in this town truly making a move on the northlands and indeed Yoitsu for trifling profits?"
"There's no hatred, resentment, or religious fervor in this town. I'm a merchant as well, but since laying eyes on this town, everything's been about trade. If the Debau Company is plotting a war, surely it has no other reason for which to fight."
"the old era."
"... It feels like a stupid thing to be timid, fearful, and to sharpen one's fangs over..."
"You probably felt the same way when we entered the town."
"Well, that's all fine. No war, no one unhappy, me being able to get my own store..."
"And you would be close to me afterwards?"
"Of course."
"I'd love to sleep like this, but there are still things I'd like to ask Mr. Luward and the others."
"What is it?"
"Nothing really."
"No, 'tis fine."
"Well, I suppose right now investigating what that company is scheming should come first."
"Mhmm,"
"Hey, get up. Someone is coming to call us right now."
"If all else fails, I am here."
"Please have a seat."
"It was a bit too noisy downstairs. If one is to drink the water of life, best to do it in peace, yes?"
"the water of life"
"Let us give thanks to the craftsman's skill."
"If they're going to make this much, tell them they need to distill it four times instead of three,"
"Refined nobility occasionally drink hard liquor like this, but they water it down, which is nothing less than heresy. After all, distillation requires the labor of so many people."
"And so,"
"Mr. Lawrence, I would like to speak to you of the consequences of our discussion."
"Those two are candidates to succeed Moizi. Please let them join us for future reference."
"I'm just a passing merchant."
"It's the people who say that who are the most fearsome of all."
"What the Debau Company is doing, and where it is invading, and so forth, still remains a mystery."
"When we came to this town, things surprised us one after another. Everyone thought to themselves, this is odd - but we couldn't put our fingers on it. Money came easy, we enjoyed a feast every night. Isn't that fine? What more could we want? Will you die if you don't go adventuring, O mighty knight Lanz Hoek? And so on."
"A large-scale mercenary company can spurn the embrace of merchants. Not so with us. However, if merchants are going to show up at any time and have us move silver in the blink of an eye, they do have to make the stay enjoyable."
"Was bringing in silver profitable?"
"It was profitable. More than the earlier talk."
"You mean the feeling there's not enough silver coins."
"Yeah... however, we followed up with several of the lords we'd spoken to after that. It wasn't that appetizing afterwards. There had been enough obtained for several lords worth, in other words."
"I'm quite jealous,"
"I often hear in jest that the Debau Company is making too much profit in silver coins for its own good. They clash often in this land of fragmented authority, and it's said they treat the lords and princes in the coin-poor south like slaves. That was half-jealousy, but when they paid in full in gold coin, I thought it was true. I thought if they seriously pulled the northlands together, they'd be lords of their own in no time."
"The Debau Company becoming lords through trade?"
"That's what I imagine. If becoming lords is too much, then certainly building an alliance of merchants with power and influence equal to a nation."
"That's why so many of us are here. If we're part of acquiring a nation, it's a big, everlasting triumph. Wandering knights would gain a sovereign territory while we mercenaries gain an exclusive employer for military services. Well, even if that's just talk from the war era ages ago, the chances Debau would hire us for its foreign trade are very high."
"And yet, you don't think the Debau Company will actually start a war."
"Yes. Exactly. We're not that large a mercenary company. The reason we still fly a flag we inherited from ancient times is because of polished wit, forecasting the near future, and never dropping our guard. But we just don't know what the Debau Company is thinking or what it's trying to do. We inform ourselves about how tools like us are to be used. Foolish mercenaries who misread that end up being killed by their employers."
"But we don't know how they would use us. The Debau Company absolutely has not moved. Large forces have not yet been deployed. Just as Mr. Lawrence explained, one reason must be that few nobles have given their assent. It's just if Debau made a full mobilization, it 159/217 could easily crush them. So why doesn't it? They're making huge profits left and right in this town, so more people flock here with that in mind. Such actions aren't how the rich people we know behave. They're not those of a compassionate monastery doing charity, either. In war, the most frightening thing is not meeting a powerful enemy on the battlefield."
"What we must fear is not understanding the circumstances we are placed in. It's the same for you, isn't it, Mr. Lawrence?"
"That is correct. My thoughts are that if I could put this situation aside, I could build a home for myself in this town. But only if I can unravel the mystery, I think."
"Even we, over the course of our long history, have been shortchanged by merchants countless times. We work for money. Money is controlled by merchants. In most cases, the sums required to hire mercenaries like us moves in easy-to-understand ways. As a rule of thumb, we don't move unless there's a reason anyone could grasp. And yet, this time we just can't see it. We see the flow of money, but we don't understand where it's going. Mr. Lawrence, if you can solve this riddle, we will prepare answers to all that you have asked us."
"I shall strive to meet your expectations,"
"There is one thing about the money flow I don't understand, however."
"Which is?"
"The town's taxes."
"This town doesn't collect any taxes."
"Th..."
"Since there's no walls, there's no way to collect tolls. Have you seen the market?"
"Because it's such a simple design, no one can know what someone's bringing in or what he's selling it for. And there's no sales tax collected. At any rate, tax collection is the dominion of the king. If they started doing that, this would become a battlefield overnight."
"But as for the tax issue, I do have one thought."
"Some ten or twenty years ago, before anyone was paying attention, the Debau Company acquired a vast amount of land all around this area."
"I heard it was dirt cheap back then, but not now. Debau raked in profits by building and selling or leasing out buildings on the land, keeping possession of the town center, charging interest to eager borrowers. They sold buildings, but since they hadn't sold the land rights, they continued getting quite a bit from the land rent."
"Also, this liveliness! You could say it's driving up building prices on a daily basis,"
"So, the building I looked at will soon sell, then?"
"It probably won't sit for long... that building is being sold by the Vhans Company. Vhans is like a branch of the Debau Company. Debau decided to concern itself mainly with operating mines, farming out other jobs to various other companies. In other words, buildings being sold by this Vhans Company are..."
"The lowest quality."
"I heard that a wealthy lord was cornering the building market, but I think that went up in smoke. Perhaps since this town's circumstances make freedom and dreams so readily available, there might be several Debau buildings left over for people such as you."
"Nobles are after this town, too?"
"Well. It's all rumor. You've heard stories of it, too?"
"Yeah. At any rate, even after coming through the wars of ancient times, no unified kingdom was ever established here. The lords can't have much enthusiasm for war all of a sudden. Well, I can understand that it's natural they'd be more concerned about how to live elegantly like the aristocracy down south than waging war. That's why..."
"No more, huh...? Ah yes. That's why even though we thought it strange the town had no wall, once we realized the real reason for it we had to credit Debau's nerve."
"A city wall isn't really for protecting oneself from enemies alone."
"It's also to stop people inside the town from escaping."
"Really,"
"If war comes, you close the gate and set up an around-the-clock watch. Do this, and no one can enter, and also, no one can leave. The moment you are surrounded by high walls, everyone shares the same fate. No one in the town thinks they can sneak off and survive on their own. Everyone has to work together. Without walls, many of those feeling threatened would pack their bags and flee. You can't fight a war under those conditions. Who's going to risk his life to protect the town with so many people fleeing? And then everything collapses. That's why you always have people like me standing behind the troops with their coats flapping."
"To stop careless sorts from running off to find something they'd misplaced?"
"That's why this town doesn't have a wall. Building a wall would make it easier to unite the town. That's inconvenient for Debau while it builds up a mountain of gold in its treasury. Easier to defend is bad for them. As it is, taking this town is easy, but defending it is difficult. In other words, attackers would likely opt to be raiders rather than 165/217 conquerors. After all, the most lucrative part is to be first come, first served to Debau's treasury. However, you can expect to be pursued while laden with treasure. Considering that risk, getting away really isn't so easy. If miserly rogues understand they won't profit from it, they'll lay off and make their money from someone else. Thus, it's not the Debau Company that protects the Debau treasury, but those after it themselves."
"Well played, as you can see."
"There are many courageous souls in our mercenary company, but Debau has just as many. You'd never think this way normally. It's really using your wits. I raise my cup to them."
"So, the fact this town is some distance from the mines?"
"Yes. For the same reason. Normally you'd set up your headquarters right next to a mine and set up a defense for it. That creates conflict. That's because it's a difficult position to take, but once it falls, it's an easy position to defend."
"That's the planning and patience Debau has. They're up to something. They have to be up to something, but..."
"My, my. If it wasn't for this lad."
"lad"
"We've largely covered the state of the town. Was there something else you wanted to ask? Or if you noticed anything, feel free to fill me in."
"No, nothing as of yet..."
"Well, if you noticed something we did not this soon, it would be somewhat of a blow to our pride."
"Well, then, I suppose that shall be all for today."
"Yes. Thank you very much."
"No. It is I who should thank you."
"We're small-scale no matter how you slice it. All our collected history wears on the lad's nerves, day after day. Indeed, I wonder if he is happy being a mercenary captain like this."
"For a while the lad longed to be a merchant. But he's the only one to carry on the Myuri name."
"Well, that aside, Lawrence, 'tis you who solved the silver coin mystery. Such wit is precisely the aid we sought. That and the lad could not look you in the eye."
"'Tis they who are living in this day and age, it seems."
"We're living with all our might as well."
"Ah, so we are, now that you mention it."
"You truly are guileless."
"The omens are finally becoming suspicious, though..."
"It seems they truly are twisted souls."
"Yeah. Certainly that, as well."
"Indeed."
"However, so what if they sprinkled some table salt and gained this town? I do not think 'tis a thing one needs to worry over."
"Not having a suitable guide to show me the way was one reason I did not leave Pasloe, but... the foremost reason was 'twas a waste."
"A waste?"
"Indeed. Or put another way, 'twas too much trouble. The wheat fields were ruffled more than the fur of a mangy dog, but I had indeed grown fond of how the ears of wheat swayed like a sea of gold. Listening to you all speaking, it seems this company's building of this town involved a great deal of time, wit, and luck, did it not?"
"Then, 'tis rejecting it not utter foolishness?"
"I see. No good, then. Then... that's right. How about someone really might attack this place, so they're gathering mercenaries to deal with the threat?"
"... A good point but... if that was so, it's strange for no one to notice... In cases like these, the attacking side and the side being attacked are like actors coming onstage. For no one to notice either of them moving is quite odd."
"Mmm... well, ah. Yes, this could be an exception to the rule."
"Huh?"
"Yes. The one defending becomes timid, be it man or beast. If that is the case, perhaps there is some fear that only the one concerned can see?"
"Might I ask you one thing?"
"Are you truly thinking this over?"
"D-did you notice something?"
"'Twas exactly as I said it, with no hidden meaning."
"..."
"... What say you?"
"I'm thinking."
"Liar."
"Do not lie to me."
"... Lie? Wait a minute. I don't even understand what you're saying to me. Why'd you suddenly say something like that?"
"You say you are thinking, and that is a lie. At best, you are pretending to think."
"Explain this to me. Certainly I haven't arrived at an answer, but I'm still putting all of my wits into it. The Debau Company's clearly up to something strange, and there has to be some kind of reason for it. Even if I'm missing something obvious, it's certainly not something I'm doing on pur-"
"So why do you think of that company as the villain?"
"Wh-what?"
"I said, why do you think of that company as the villain?"
"Er, it's not that I decided that they're villains exactly-"
"I see. Think on this, then."
"You are a carefree merchant."
"Huh?"
"For example,"
"You have money. You have time. You wandered into this town. You realized it was absurdly filled with liveliness. War? Ask anyone about that and they'd laugh in your face. You've even heard that the wealthy are quietly buying up mansions. You even saw a shop being sold at an incredibly low price. Think about it. 'Tis this not an incredible opportunity for you to make money?"
"Mm?"
"Buy a... shop."
"Indeed. After all, putting all the stories together, the price shall surely rise."
"So, then."
"Why do you not purchase it?"
"And if you did buy it, would you not think of more optimistic things? Right now 'tis as if-"
"You are searching for something bad."
"When we went around town to look into your acquiring a shop, I told you, I saw this town truly sparkle."
"I thought, with this kind of liveliness, the normal you would see nothing but good things. Like, Don't worry, this time I'll make a fortune, and so forth."
"I do not mind at all."
"Er, but?"
"If you decided to have a shop in this town, I would be right at your side."
"Even should that company pry Yoitsu out of the ground or pry other places beside, I mind not. "And more to the point, should I mind, 'twould be the same no matter where you set up your shop. I would be uneasy about them as well, and should something happen, well, I would leave the shop behind. To never return again, mm, that too would be possible."
"That soft, flabby sheep said as much, did he not? That 'twould weigh upon me if I knew. However, not seeing something does not mean it ceases to be. Besides, there is one I live with in the present. That is no old story, no legend, nay, not even a very foolish message carved into a claw. One who lives, who speaks, who laughs, who gets angry, who gets depressed, who is a fool, but... one with his eyes squarely upon the morrow, who comes and takes my hand."
"In truth, even now, remembering Myuri's message brings pain to my chest, enough to want to bury myself in a dark hole for the next century. However..."
"You extended your hand to me and pulled me out of it. Do you understand how happy that made me?"
"I cannot help but be happy that I am important to you. However, to become your millstone is painful. You have said it, have you not?"
"'Tis easier to be enveloped by tragedy when one has something to protect."
"I promised you I would pass on a tale of our journey. I wish not to tell a tragic tale."
"I mind not the sight of you traveling, but I like the sight of you seated and writing as well. To see you quietly concentrating upon your writings, yes. Indeed, I would like to see that very much."
"That is why, you see."
"How about instead of using an excuse to gather information, you fight like a proper male?"
"Even if that company plays the fool and puts your decrepit shop to waste, we shall enjoy traveling together again, shall we not?"
"Well, that's certainly true. But,"
"you're telling me to make a gamble that could send thousands of silver coins up in smoke? Failure would have real consequences, wouldn't it?"
"If you failed in that, 'twould have me thousands of silver coins in debt to you. Oh, such sorrow I would know for making you lose everything. I can just picture it now."
"How about we try it,"
"Heh-heh. You truly are a fool."
"your precious hard-earned money"
"Yes, you certainly are a fool."
"Let's think of the name for a shop."
"Not the name of a pup?"
New Convo:

"What was that coarse howling just now?"
"All right, I'm ready."
"Heh-heh."
"What is it?"
"Mm?"
"I watched you many times in Pasloe."
"Mm, what about it?"
"Well. Back then, you seemed to have less... hmm... confidence about you."
"Now when did you turn into a good male?"
"Do not bear doubt that I ridicule you or I am being overbearing. I truly think you have grown,"
"Heh-heh. Make not such a face. 'Tis simply that I am not of an age to take pleasure in my own growth. 'Tis more amusing to watch the unripe wheat come of age."
"In the end, I set off from Yoitsu to pursue my own enjoyment. Wherever I went, I drank wine, danced the night away, and finally settled down in Pasloe. 'Twas then I realized it. Enjoyment only for the self could not continue long. In that respect, to do something with someone else is more profound."
"'Tis truly well for me to decide the shop's name?"
"If you behave yourself."
"It's a promise."
"Huh?"
"Mm?"
"Come, you-"
"Come, you, that's quite enough..."
"We're going to watch something incredible."
"Huh?"
"Debau will go to war."
"Wh..."
"Furthermore, the entire region will be drawn in,"
"You want to know?"
"'Tis written all over your face that you shall say it anyway."
"That's correct."
"... We are going round in circles. Speak already."
"Mr. Lawrence, momentous news!"
"Oh, Mr. Lawrence. 'Tis a grave matter. Just now, our subordinates reported a billboard has been put up in the square. It concerns-"
"I know what it concerns."
"You have already seen it?"
"What is the meaning of this, then?"
"The billboard carries an announcement that a new coin is being issued. Am I wrong?"
"That is correct."
"But how did you know?"
"For the Debau Company is a collection of merchants, and I, too, am a merchant."
"invariable"
"The Debau Company has obtained approval from multiple lords for the issuance of coinage in the following weights."
"It's a new era!"
"Money is a powerful force in any world, but it was never able to resolve everything. And yet the Debau Company has accomplished all this with money alone. We haven't swung our swords even once, and yet all the lords are bowing down before them!"
"Certainly, I have not once heard of a case like this."
"This is what will bring many of our comrades to tears. We will lose much of our purpose for existing. We've become paid paper puppets. If we can at least earn something in spite of this..."
"Who can complain about this?!"
"Moizi and I weren't looking straight at the problem, I suppose."
"I'm glad you were here, Mr. Lawrence. I did not think the power of money was as tremendous as this."
"I thought I knew a thing or two about money. However, those who I have met on my travels have taught me that there is still much about it I have yet to learn."
"Naturally, never in my dreams did I think someone like the Debau Company could make it into a reality. That's in spite of meeting someone like Holo here."
"the good old days,"
"This might very well be the new way of the world."
"When I was young, it was the duty of lords and the noble-born knights around them to go to new lands. At some point, the noblemen ceased to be knights and left the bounds of their kings. Mercenaries were hired with money in increasing numbers and frequency, and their employers were no longer the kings of various lands, but rather the distinguished and wealthy noblemen and great merchants that emerged in large cities. Do you know who in the world are at the front of the line, descending upon the new lands across the sea?"
"Merchants, yes?"
"My father liked to say, 'Don't choose your employers, and don't have others choose your money.'"
"It's the reverse now. If we try to name our price now, we'll never be able to make a living."
"Mr. Lawrence, I'm not sure you're aware of it, but right now, competition for mercenary work is fierce. The world's filled with ordinary blacksmiths and other stout craftsmen who train themselves, carrying weapons they know how to use better than anyone, who work away from home as mercenaries. They were the first 'Free Lancers.' They're less picky about who they work for than we are. Their goal's simply to earn money, not to fight for the tradition and dignity of their banner."
"Anyway, now that the possibility of war in this town has abated for now, will you be headed to Yoit... to the Tolkien region?"
"Ah, there is that... we'd really meant to ride the winning horse, but... the horse turned out to be a different one than we bargained for. If we stayed, we'd probably find work. However, that would mean changing in a definitive way. That is why I think we should go south, searching for remnants of the old era."
"We can always dissolve after we are certain whether this change becomes a heavy trend throughout the world or a miracle limited only to here."
"Though we do intend to visit our homeland. When we make profit, some members have family they want to spend some of that money on."
"So could we go with you?"
"Well, even if we had a reason not to bring you, our ancestors would never forgive us."
"I suppose we'll be off in four, maybe five days. How many days depends on what's going on and whether there are any large developments, which certainly could happen, but..."
"I doubt there'll be anything bigger than this that will happen. The Debau Company's plan is no doubt running smoothly, like chasing a rabbit down a rabbit hole. As long as the rabbit hole doesn't lead to a strange place, which shouldn't happen, because a rabbit hole's just a rabbit hole."
"Well, let's say it's a turning point of the era and leave it at that. We mercenaries have always lived in the gaps of history after all."
"And it seems we are not the only ones who think so,"
"That's the kid from Rebonet, isn't it?"
"Ha-ha. Their captain is a devoted lover of wine, too, after all."
"I can't say no to that. Well, the rest of you have fun here."
"Well, I'd best be off."
"Now, to enjoy myself, as requested...... And what about the two of you?"
"We'll return to our rooms. Doubtless everyone will get quite carried away in the middle of this uproar."
"Heh-heh-heh. A wise decision. The taste of wine should be properly enjoyed at leisure. They'd just as well drink mud water right now. Indeed, quite a lot of it."
"Besides, now that I've paid the deposit for that store, my head hurts from the money I'll have to raise. This is no time to spend a couple of days drunk."
"Oh, truly, you have?"
"Yes, with both feet."
"... Ha-ha. How fortuitous. A once-in-a-lifetime purchase for a young man."
"Fortuitous, indeed. I didn't think you'd actually buy it. And at the most opportune time, as well."
"Yes. I'm grateful to God."
"In this world one never knows what might happen. Good night, then."
"Shall we go as well?"
"There's wine in the room, too."
"Fool. How can I leave good wine like this behind?"
"See? We're in the cleaner's way. Let's go."
"What, you don't want to go back to our room?"
"... 'Tis not that,"
"Ah,"
"Are you worried about the money?"
"I have enough money for good-tasting wine for you."
"What a waste."
"Truly?"
"Let's knock ours-"
"If you let your guard down now, you shall regret it later."
"Lately you have not been of such frugal mind. Are you not slipping, perhaps?"
"However."
"If you insist so much, there is no need to drink outside."
"Had too much to drink?"
"Aye."
"Mmm-hee-hee-hee."
"And what are you grinning about?"
"I'm happy. That's something to smile at."
"'Tis because you say such things with such audacity that I say you are a fool."
"When you said, 'I want to go back to Yoitsu,' and I brought you with me, I never imagined something like this happening, though."
"If you ask where it is even now, I cannot recall. And were I to recall, it is possible I would misremember."
"And yet, we've arrived."
"We have not arrived yet,"
"Well, that's certainly the case, but more importantly."
"Let's talk after we reach Yoitsu."
"You are the only one moving ahead, bit by bit."
"I am just like those who carried Myuri's claw - the side left behind."
"And yet until a short time ago, you were the one chasing me."
"It's because I worked so desperately to catch up. Won't you praise that?"
"That's right. You have worked hard."
"You have fulfilled your promise to me. So, as for what comes after..."
"Kraft Lawrence."
"Holo the Wisewolf."