
New Convo:

"Is aught the matter?"
"Will you hurry your grooming and put your tail under the tarp again?"
"My tail is not your personal muffler."
"It's such fine fur, though; putting it under the tarp keeps my legs as warm as a mountain of pelts would."
"Anyway, will we make the town soon? We will arrive before the day is out, no?"
"Just a bit farther along this river,"
"And then, finally, a hot meal. I've had my fill of cold gruel. I can't stand another bite!"
"Well, the town we're bound for is in the middle of a huge fair, so you can look forward to all kinds of food. "Oh ho. But will your coin purse handle such extravagance?"
"Don't worry, your food bill's within the budget."
"Mm..."
"Besides, I wound up not being able to get you those honeyed peach preserves I promised you. Just think of it as payment for that."
"'Tis true... and yet..."
"What?"
"I'm half-worried about your balance but half-worried about myself. If I eat too extravagantly, we'll have to stay in that much poorer lodgings."
"Well, I was planning on staying in a decent inn. Surely you're not going to tell me it must have separate bedrooms with a fireplace in each?"
"I would not go so far as that, but it wont do to have you use my appetite as an excuse."
"An excuse for what?"
"For only renting a single bed, saying you lack the coin to do more. Sometimes I prefer to sleep alone."
"I'm not sure someone who snores so readily should be talking."
"Besides, you're hardly my type."
"Surely you know I'm telling the truth,"
"So you like to see me this way, do you?"
"Such foolishness. The more idiot the male, the weaker a girl he fancies, never realizing his head is the weakest part of all,"
"If I'm to be the helpless princess, you'll need to play the intrepid knight. And yet what are you, really?"
"Though come to that, I suppose you are a knight of sorts. Hm."
"What, have you forgotten? Did you not stand between me and my attackers? 'Twas in the tunnels beneath Pazzio, during that silver coin nonsense."
"... Oh, that."
"It's not physical strength that makes a knight. 'Twas the first time I've been protected by anyone."
"And you'll look after me henceforth, yes?"
"wolf"
"... Sorry."
"That's what I like about you."
"Anyhow, I suppose I don't mind a single bed, but I'll take twice as much dinner to compensate."
"I know, I know,"
"So, what's tasty in this part of the world?"
"The local specialty, you mean? Well, I don't know if it counts as a specialty, really, but..."
"Fish, is it not?"
"Indeed, it is. Yes, west of here there's a lake. Dishes made with fish taken from that lake are what passes for the local specialty. But how did you know?"
"Oh, I've just been catching the scent on the wind,"
"That caravan, it's carrying fish."
"Though I can't fathom what a fish dish would be. Would it be anything like the eel we had in Ruvinheigen?"
"That was just fried in oil. There are more involved dishes - steamed with meat or vegetables or cooked with spices. Also, this town's got another specialty."
"Oh ho!"
"You can look forward to it once we get there."
"What say you to buying some fish from yonder caravan if they prove to be of good quality?"
"I don't have an eye for fish. I took a loss on dealing fish once, so I try to avoid them."
"But you've my eyes and nose now."
"Can you sniff out the quality offish?"
"I've half a mind to sniff out your quality!"
"Mercy, please! I suppose if they have anything worth buying, we can pick some up and have it prepared for us in town. It's a better deal that way, too."
"Quite! You may rely on me."
"Goodness. You really are so charming, I've no idea what to do with myself,"
"Fish, you say?"
"Yes, I was wondering if you might sell me a few,"
"I'm terribly sorry, all of our fish have been spoken for already."
"boy,"
"You'll pardon me for asking, but are you a traveling merchant?"
"Yes, I've just come from Ruvinheigen."
"I see. Well, there's a lake about a half day's journey up the road we've just come down. I'm sure you can deal with the fishermen there. They're bringing in excellent carp of late."
"Ah, no, I'm not buying for business. I was merely hoping you could sell me a few fish for dinner. That is all."
"You're quite serious about your trade,"
"Oh-"
"My apologies! Er, incidentally, if you're looking for fish for dinner, you must be stopping in Kumersun, yes?"
"Indeed. For the winter market and also to take in the festival."
"Might I ask if you've already arranged for accommodations?"
"The festival is the day after tomorrow. Surely the inns aren't all occupied already."
"I assure you, they are."
"Ah, but the trade guilds will have made arrangements to put their members up for the great market, so I'll inquire with them,"
"Oh, you are associated with a trade guild - might I ask which guild?"
"The Rowen Trade Guild out of Kumersun."
"What a wonderful coincidence! I, too, am a member of the Rowen Guild."
"Ah, surely God has ordained this... Ah, I suppose such talk is taboo here."
"Ha-ha, do not worry. I, too, am a Church follower from the south."
"Allow me to introduce myself. I am Fermi Amati, a fish dealer out of Kumersun. I go by Amati in business."
"I'm Kraft Lawrence, a traveling merchant - likewise, I go by Lawrence."
"This is Holo, my traveling companion. Circumstances have led to her accompanying me, though she is not my wife,"
"Is Miss Holo... a nun?"
"She is a nun on a pilgrimage or something like it, yes."
"In any case, the troubles we encounter on our journeys are naught but tests from the heavens. I say this because while I may be able to arrange for a single room, two rooms may unfortunately be difficult,"
"Surely it is by Gods grace that we are of the same trade guild. If I inquire at an inn I've sold fish to, I'm sure I can arrange for a single room. Trying to arrange for a room through the guild will surely lead to all sorts of troublesome questions about your female companion from the old-timers."
"You're quite right, but I don't think we can impose upon you so."
"I'm a businessman, so naturally this is a business proposal. I hope that you will enjoy lots of delicious fish while staying at the inn."
"You're quite a trader. We'll be happy to take you up on your offer,"
"Understood. Please leave the arrangements to me."
"Hmm. So this is what shellfish tastes like, eh?"
"Don't eat too much, or you'll get a stomachache."
"Mm?"
"Evil spirits live in those river snails. Eat them carelessly, and you'll regret it."
"Just who do you think I am? It's not just the quality of wheat I can judge."
"Didn't you say something about eating spicy peppers and regretting it?"
"Even I can't determine taste purely from appearance. They were bright red, I'll have you know - like a perfectly ripened fruit,"
"Shall I order you something sweeter?"
"......"
"soul-shaking liquor"),
"'Tis a nostalgic flavor,"
"I can hardly tell any flavor at all when the liquor's been so distilled,"
"One forgets the sight of something after only ten years, but the taste and the scents linger in the mind for many tens of years longer. This liquor brings back many memories. It's not unlike the liquor of Yoitsu, you know."
"Strong drink is common in the north. Is this all you ever drunk?"
"Sweeter liquor hardly suits a wisewolf of such noble stature,"
"I see you've taken to the stew?"
"Mm. Who would have guessed that carp, boiled, would be so tasty? Another bowl, please."
"Where'd you manage to eat carp? There aren't many places that serve it."
"Hm? I got it from the river. They're sluggish creatures, easy to snare."
"I've never had raw carp. Is it good?"
"The scales get stuck twixt my teeth, and there are too many bones. I'd seen fish swallow the smaller ones whole and so imagined them to be delicious, but in the end, they did not suit me."
"Human cooking is indeed good, but it's not just that - the fish was chosen very well. That Amati lad has quite an eye."
"For his age, yes. And that was quite a load he was moving."
"And on the other hand, there's you. What was it you're hauling, again?"
"Hm? Nails. Like this table... Oh, I guess it doesn't use them."
"I know what nails are. I'm saying you should've gone for something a bit more impressive. Or are you still reeling from your failure in Ruvinheigen?"
"It may not be the grandest load, but it should turn a fair profit. And it's not as though there's nothing attractive in my wagon."
"I mean, you're riding in it as well, after all."
"... Well, I suppose that's about all you're capable of,"
"You know, it wouldn't kill you to be a little nicer to me,"
"Ah, but if you treat a male too well, he'll soon come to expect it all the time. And then you'll hear naught but the same foolish words over and over."
"Ugh..."
"Fine, then. From now on I'll-"
"You dunce,"
"How precious do you think a male's kindness is?"
"......"
"And all I need do for your kindness is to seem downcast, nay?"
"Don't come crying to me if you're hungover tomorrow. Have you already forgotten what happened in Pazzio?"
"Mm? Oh, this is fine. Fine liquor never lingers past its welcome. And who am I to turn down its friendship?"
"So, before you're three sheets to the wind, there's something I want to ask you."
"What might that be?"
"It's about your home village."
"So you don't know where it is, eh? I was starting to wonder when you were going to ask."
"Do you really think I go to pieces at every mention of Yoitsu? Do I seem so weak?"
"Not at all,"
"Fool. That was your chance to say 'Aye, you do!'"
"Still, you do worry over the strangest things. So you decided to finally bring this up now, after seeing my mood at supper? Such a soft touch."
"I can't say it doesn't make me happy, though its mostly your foolishness that is so amusing. Did you plan on getting lost in the northlands before finally asking me?"
"Will you tell me where Yoitsu is, so I don't look any more foolish than I have to? " 32/234 Holo paused, taking a sip from her cup. She gave a long sigh. "I do not exactly remember."
"I know the direction, certainly. It is that way."
"But I do not remember how many mountains to cross, nor how many rivers, nor how long one must walk across the plains. I had thought I would remember as we get closer - will that not do?"
"Can't you even give me a hint as to where it might be? The path is not a straight one, and once we arrive in the north country, maps will be hard to come by. Depending on the location, the path could be very roundabout. Do you remember the names of any nearby places, for example?"
"I remember Yoitsu and Nyohhira. And... hmm... What was it... Pi-"
"Pi?"
"Pire... no, Piro... That's right! Pirohmoten."
"I haven't heard of that place. Is there anything else?"
"Er... there were many towns, but they didn't all have names the way towns do now. One could just point and say a town was beyond that mountain, and that was enough. We didn't need names."
"evil spirits"
"Well, we'll start at Nyohhira, then. I know where that is."
"That name brings back such memories. Are the hot springs still there?"
"I've heard that nobles and bishops secretly visit the town for its hot springs, despite the fact that it's in pagan lands. According to rumor, it's even exempt from Church attacks because of those same hot springs."
"Those springs don't belong to any one group, after all,"
"If Nyohhira's our goal, then from Nyohhira it is that way."
"How long did it take to get from Nyohhira to Yoitsu?"
"For me, two days. For a human... I do not know."
"Could you not find it yourself from Nyohhira? You know the general direction, right?"
"Y-yes... if I got as far as Nyohhira, I could certainly find my way to Yoitsu."
"Ah-"
"Hey, now, wait just a minute. Don't take it the wrong way. There's no reason I couldn't wait in Nyohhira while you searched for a couple of days."
"Yes. That would be enough. You'll guide me as far as Nyohhira, won't you? I had hoped to see a few more towns."
"Listen, I have every intention of helping you as much as I can. What I said before-"
"Didn't I ask before how precious a male's kindness was? I can't have you being too kind."
"I'm in the wrong. I can't help thinking of things from my own perspective. But you humans, you become old in what seems like the blink of an eye to me. I always forget how precious a single year is for someone with such a brief life span."
"You really are too softhearted. What am I to do with you when you look at me so?"
"I am the one who lost sight of the obvious. I have gotten too comfortable by your side. I presumed... too much,"
"Heh, I seem to be a bit drunk. I'd better sleep, or who knows what I'll wind up saying."
New Convo:

"all right"
"Hungover again, eh?"
"I'll bring a cup of water and a bucket just in case. You just be good and rest."
"be good"
"The festival doesn't get going until tomorrow, so you needn't rush yourself."
"I'll be back in the afternoon."
"Le, spandi amirto. Vanderji."
"Ha-ha. Pireji. Bao!"
"I guess I interrupted your business."
"Hardly! He was just talking my ear off about how grateful he was to the god of Pitra Mountain. You saved me,"
"If I'd known better, I wouldn't have bothered learning their language. They're not bad men, but once they figure out you can understand them, you'll never hear the end of how great their god is."
"Might be that a local deity's still better than a god who never leaves the shrine except when they spy a flash of gold, eh?"
"You're not lying! And they say harvest gods are all beautiful women."
"Anyway, enough of such talk. I'll be scolded by the missus for sure. Shall we talk of trade? I presume that's why you're here."
"I've brought nails from Ruvinheigen. Thought you might want to buy them up."
"Nails, eh? I'm a wheat seller. Did you hear somewhere that we now nail our sacks of wheat closed? I think not."
"Ah, but you'll soon have many customers laying in supplies for the long winter. You could sell those nails just as you sell the wheat. People need them to brace up their homes against the snow."
"I suppose that is true... Nails, you say. How many?"
"I've one hundred twenty nails of three pate in length, two hundred in four pate, and two hundred in five pate, along with a statement of quality from the Ruvinheigen blacksmiths' guild."
"I'll take the lot for ten and a half lumione."
"What's the lumione trading at now? Against trenni silver."
"Thirty-four even when yesterdays market closed. So that'd be... three hundred fifty-seven trenni."
"Too low by far, sir,"
"Have you heard about the crash in armor prices?"
"With no military expeditions into the north this year, people are unloading armor and swords left and right, which means there's a glut of raw iron. Even nails are cheaper now - even ten lumione is a generous price."
"Aye, but that's in the south. When there's so much iron to be melted down, the price of fuel will rise enough to make it impractical. If you can buy enough firewood to melt iron this time of the year in Ploania, I'd sure like to see it. Anybody that tries it is likely to have their head split with a kindling ax."
"Come now, must you be selling nails to a poor wheat merchant? If it's grain, then sure, I know how to buy it cheap, but nails are far from my specialty."
"Sixteen lumione, then."
"Too dear. Thirteen."
"Fifteen."
"Fourteen and two-thirds."
"It's done, then."
"Well met, guild brother!"
"Would you prefer to settle up in coin or credit?"
"Credit, if you please."
"Thank goodness. There are so many cash deals this time of year it's hard to keep up."
"So since I'm taking credit, I've got a favor to ask of you,"
"It's nothing terribly important. I've got to head north to take care of something, and I wondered if you'd ask after the conditions of the roads and passes up that way. Your customer before me, he was from the north, no?"
"Aye, that's easy enough,"
"Though it would've been easier for you to come in the summertime as you normally do. Must be something pretty big to get you heading up north in midwinter."
"Well, you know, this and that. I will say it's nothing to do with business, though."
"Ha-ha-ha. Even the ever-traveling merchant can't free himself from life's little obligations, eh? So where are you headed?"
"A place called Yoitsu. Heard of it?"
"Can't say I have. But who knows how many little towns and villages I've never heard of. You want me to find someone who knows it, then?"
"Well, in any case, we're heading for Nyohhira, so you can ask about Yoitsu sort of 'by the way'; that'll be fine."
"Right, then. So if you're bound for Nyohhira you'll be crossing the Dolan Plains."
"You know the way, then? That makes it easier for me."
"leave it to me."
"Oh, yes. There was another thing I wanted to ask you about. Don't worry, this will be quick,"
"Do I look that stingy?"
"Does this town have any chroniclers?"
"Chroniclers...? Oh, you mean the people who write those endless diaries of town events?"
"endless diaries."
"I don't think they'd like you putting it that way, but yes,"
"Bah, it just bothers me that all they need do to earn coin is sit in a chair all day and write."
"That's a little hard to take from someone who got so lucky in a deal he was able to open a shop in a town."
"So, are there any chroniclers or nay?"
"Ah... yes, I think there are. But I wouldn't get mixed up with them were I you,"
"Rumor has it one was accused of heresy by a monastery somewhere and had to flee. The town's filled with people like that who had to run."
"I just have some things I want to ask after,"
"Chroniclers collect local legends and such, yes? I've an interest in such matters."
"Now, why would you care about that? Do you need conversation starters for when you travel north?"
"Something like that. I know it's sudden, but do you think you might introduce me to one?"
"I do know one. Better if it's someone from Rowen, right?"
"What's the matter?"
"Hm? Oh... nothing. Yes, if there's a chronicler in the trade guild, that would be convenient. Can I ask you to introduce me?"
"I can certainly do that much, yes. I'll even do it for free."
"free."
"Is sooner better?"
"If possible, yes."
"I'll send the boy out, then. There's a fearless old peddler named Gi Bates there, and if I'm remembering right, he's close with a pagan hermit who's done chronicle work. Old Batos takes the week before and after the festival off, so if you go by the guild house around midday, you should find him drinking the day away."
"Understood. I'm in your debt."
"Ha-ha. If that's all it takes to be in my debt, I'd hate to think what comes next. Enough of that talk - you'll be in town until the festival ends, yes? Stop by for a drink, won't you?"
"I suppose I should let you brag of your success at least once. I'll be by."
"Even a town merchant endures endless troubles and worries, though. Sometimes I wish I could go back to traveling."
"Uh, forget I said that,"
"All we can do is keep our noses to the grindstone. It's the same for all merchants."
"True enough. Good fortune to the both of us, then!"
"One always sees the wretched parts of one's own land and the best parts of one's neighbor s."
"So it smelled this bad, did it..."
"I'm hungry."
"Mmph... Something smells amazing..."
"Feeling better?"
"I'm hungry."
"I figured you'd say that. I splurged and got some wheat bread."
"Will you not eat some?"
"No, I'm fine. I had a taste earlier."
"Careful, you'll choke."
"They're letters."
"Mm,"
"Dear Mr. Lawrence..."
"In the name of our Lord"
"What do they say?"
"Care to take a guess?"
"They hardly seem like love letters."
"You always get important information after you most need it."
"Hmph."
"These letters were sent out of sincere concern, so I owe them some gratitude at least. What think you?"
"I cannot read."
"Oh... you can't?"
"If you're feigning ignorance, I must say you're getting better at it."
"No, no, sorry. I really had no idea."
"First of all,"
"there are too many letters to remember and too many baffling combinations. You might say all one needs to do is write as one would speak, but that is clearly a lie."
"You mean the consonant notation and such?"
"I've no idea what you call them, but the rules are too complex by far. If there's one way in which you humans exceed us wolves, it is your mastery of those inexplicable symbols."
"Though it's not as if it's a simple matter for us to memorize them, either,"
"I had no easy time of it, and every time I made a mistake, my teacher would strike me on the head for it. I thought I'd have a permanent lump."
"Surely you can tell I'm not lying,"
"So what is it that's written there?"
"Ah, it says that the northern campaigns have been canceled, so be careful of buying up armor,"
"So if you had but received that letter sooner, you wouldn't have gotten in trouble?"
"Indeed. Such is hindsight. But the fact that these two merchants would spend coin to deliver this message to me is worth knowing. I can trust these two."
"Mm. And yet the difference between reading and not reading the letters was the difference between heaven and hell."
"It's no joke. You've the right of it, no question. A single letter can determine your fate. A merchant without information might as well be heading out onto a battlefield with a blindfold."
"I don't know about your eyes, but you surely cover your shame often enough."
"Hmph. Even teasing you does not dispel my drowsiness."
"Oh, yes - we can go to the festival now, yes?"
"Sorry, not ye-"
"Even if you're joking, please - stop that, I beg you,"
"Ah-hah, so you are weak against this sort of thing. I'll remember that,"
"Mm. But - can I not go into the town myself?"
"You'll go whether or not I give you permission."
"Hm, I suppose that's true..."
"I don't have any small change right now, so... don't spend it all in once place."
"It's not as valuable as a trenni piece, so you shouldn't get the evil eye if you try to buy some bread with it. They'll make change without a fuss."
"Mm..."
"What's wrong?"
"Hm? Oh..."
"I was... I was just thinking that it would be a bit of a waste to go alone,"
"What business have you remaining? If you'll take me along, I'll return the silver piece,"
"Oh, uh, I was- I was just meeting with someone."
"Well, I'm going to wander about anyway. If you don't want me near, I'll keep my distance. Take me along, won't you?"
"Oh, do please take me with you!"
"I'm really sorry - can you let me go alone today? I've got to meet with someone, and then I expect we'll be going elsewhere, so I can be introduced to someone else. If you came along, you'd have to wait outside nearly the whole time."
"Mm..."
"I should be able to finish up all my business today, and then starting tomorrow, we can take our time and enjoy the festival. So can you manage on your own for one more day?"
"Mm. Well, I do not wish to get in your way. I can't have you slapping my hand away again,"
"I'll buy you a souvenir. Just abide one more day."
"So I'm to be bought off again, am I?"
"Shall I sweet-talk you instead?"
"Hmph. Your words are far from sweet; they're practically inedible. I shall pass."
"I suppose I shall just wander about on my own."
"I'm sorry,"
"Oh, that's right. If when you return there are two people in the room, would you mind staying out for a while?"
"Seeing your adorable face will be quite enough to tide me over for the day,"
"I'd rather be in your arms than not, still,"
"Do not worry."
"Mr. Lawrence,"
"Good afternoon. And thank you for your assistance with the inn."
"Not at all. I should be thanking you for ordering so much fish for dinner."
"My finicky companion praised it to the heavens. Said that you had an excellent eye for fish."
"Ha-ha, I'm delighted to hear it! If she has any other requests, I'll be buying some truly excellent fish tomorrow."
"She seemed to have a special love for the carp."
"I see... very well, then. I'll go find more that she'll enjoy."
"Oh, incidentally, Mr. Lawrence - have you any plans at the moment?"
"I am killing time before I meet with Mr. Batos."
"I see..."
"Why do you ask?"
"Er, yes, actually I was thinking perhaps I could show you and your companion around the town. Our meeting on the road was the will of God, surely, and I don't doubt I could learn much from talking with a traveling merchant such as yourself."
"I surely appreciate the invitation, and my companion Holo has been wanting to get a look at the town, but I don't think..."
"If it's all right with you, I would be happy to show just Miss Holo around! In truth, I've finished my work for the day and am quite free."
"Oh, I couldn't possibly..."
"Not at all. If left to my own devices, I fear I'll simply drink all my profits away. To be blunt, this works out nicely for me. I would be happy to escort her."
"I see. Well, she is not so well behaved as to stay in the inn simply because I told her to - she may not be there at all."
"Ha-ha! As it happens, I need to go by the inn and discuss a purchase with them, so I'll inquire after her while I am there, and if she is there, I'll invite her out."
"I'm so sorry to impose,"
"No, not at all. Please allow me to show you around town as well next time!"
"Looks like I had good timing,"
"Well then, Mr. Lawrence - I'll take my leave."
"Ah, yes. Thank you, again."
"Kraft Lawrence, I presume? I am Gi Batos."
"I daresay merchants who travel across many provinces, like yourself, Mr. Lawrence, are more numerous these days. Traveling to and fro between the same places, selling the same things as I do, gets quite boring."
"Ah, but the town peddlers and craftsmen would surely be angry if they heard you say so."
"Ha-ha-ha! Right you are. There are plenty of men who've spent fifty years selling naught but leather rope. No doubt I'd get an earful if I claimed to be tired of it,"
"Still, I must say you're a curious fellow, Mr. Lawrence."
"Oh?"
"I refer to your search for a chronicler to learn the ancient tales of the northlands. Or has it something to do with a business prospect?"
"Oh no, nothing like that. It's just something of a whim, I suppose."
"Ha-ha-ha! You've got good taste for one so young. I've only recently become interested in the old tales. Originally I intended to make a 66/234 business of it, but I'm afraid they've quite become my master rather than the other way around!"
"It came to me after so many years of going back and forth between the same places. The world I knew was very small, you see. But even there, people had been coming and going for hundreds of years, and I knew nothing about those times at all."
"I'm old, you see, and I've not the vigor to go journeying afar. Neither can I travel back in time. So even if it's only by stories, I came to want to visit the places I've never been able to see in person and to travel back to those ages that God in his capriciousness has prevented me from experiencing. When I was a young man with nothing on my mind but profit, such things would never have occurred to me, but now I often wonder if I'd had the chance to consider them, my life would have turned out quite differently. So I must admit I'm a bit envious of you, Mr. Lawrence. Hah, I must sound quite ancient."
"The worlds we live in, you and I, are very different."
"But when the Church looks at the old tales and legends, all they see are superstitions and pagan stories. Where the Church's eye falls, tales become hard to collect. Hyoram is a mountainous region and had many fascinating stories, but the Church was there, too. Kumersun is quite nice in that regard."
"Is that... sulfur?"
"Aha, so you've handled medicinal stones as well, have you?"
"No, I've knowledge of it is all."
"Knowledge is a merchant's greatest weapon. You're good at your job."
"... It's kind of you to say so."
"One can't always smell the poison wind. People keep small birds - and if the bird suddenly dies, they know to be careful."
"Mr. Batos-"
"How many alchemists are in this district, would you say?"
"Hmm... counting apprentices perhaps twenty, give or take. But in any case, accidents are common, so it is hard to know for sure."
"Do you find that trading with alchemists makes good business? I would think it would bring significant danger."
"Mm..."
"There's a lot of profit to be had in trading with alchemists that have nobility backing them up. They buy a lot of iron, lead, quicksilver, and tin - to say nothing of copper, silver, and gold."
"Ha-ha-ha, are you surprised? Even here in the north, there are people who think alchemists are basically sorcerers. In truth, they're not so very different from metal smiths. They heat metals or melt them down with acids. Of course..."
"... In reality, there are some who research sorcery."
"But I've only heard rumors of them, and I don't believe any of the alchemists in this district have met any such people. And incidentally, everyone living in this area is basically a good person."
"good people."
"They're my bread and butter, after all, so I can't very well accuse them of being bad people now, can I?"
"Come now, you needn't be so nervous. They really are fine people here."
"Excuse us - is anybody home?"
"Well, if it isn't Mr. Batos!"
"It's been a while. You seem well!"
"I could say the same of you! Spending all your time in the mountains of Hyoram. God must favor you indeed."
"You're quite a handsome man, but you think me a witch - I can see it in your eyes."
"In that case, perhaps that's how I should introduce you?"
"Don't be absurd - this place is already quite tedious enough. And in any case, is any witch as pretty as I am?"
"I hear many women are exposed as witches because of their beauty."
"You never change, Mr. Batos. No doubt you've hideaways all over Hyoram."
"So, m'dear. It's not me that has business with you today, but Lawrence here."
"Please excuse my rudeness. I am Kraft Lawrence, a traveling merchant. I've come to call upon one Dian Rubens. Might he be in the house?"
"What, did Batos not tell you?"
"Oh-"
"Mr. Lawrence, this is Miss Dian Rubens."
"Dian Rubens at your service. It's quite a masculine name, is it not? Please call me Diana,"
"Well, enough of that. Please, come in. I don't bite,"
"So, what might your business be?"
"First, I should apologize for my sudden intrusion,"
"Actually, Miss Rubens, I was-"
"Diana, please,"
"Excuse me,"
"Yes, as I was saying, I have heard that you are quite knowledgeable about the old tales of the northlands. I was hoping you would share some of that knowledge with me."
"The north?"
"Yes."
"And here I thought he'd want to talk business."
"You jest. Had he spoken of business you'd have had him out on his ear."
"But you don't even know if I know the tale you seek."
"That might mean the tale I heard was made up from whole cloth,"
"Well then, it appears you will have to tell me this tale, and I shall do the listening."
"In that case, the story I wish to hear of concerns a village called Yoitsu."
"Ah, the one said to have been destroyed by the Moon-Hunting Bear."
"I seem to recall... Ah, here it is. The Moon-Hunting Bear, also known as Irawa Weir Muheddhunde, and Yoitsu, the village it destroyed. There are many stories of this bear. All quite old, though,"
"It's not the bear I'm interested in, but the town."
"The town?"
"Yes. I've occasion to be searching it out. Is there anything in your tales that might reveal its location?"
"Location, eh? Location, indeed..."
"Have you any ideas?"
"I have it! At the headwaters of the Roam River, which flows north of Ploania, there's a story like this in a town called Lenos,"
"Long ago, a lone wolf called Holoh appeared in the village. Its great height was such that one had to look up to keep it in view. The villagers were certain that it was the punishment from the gods, but Holoh told of her journey from the deep forests of the east, explaining that she was bound for the southlands. She loved wine, and at times would take the form of a maiden and dance with the village girls. Her form was both fetching and youthful, though she kept her wolf tail. After frolicking with them for a time, she blessed their harvest and continued south. Since that time, bountiful harvests have continued, and we of the village remember her as Holoh of the Wheat Tail."
"Was that any use?"
"Yes, as it limits the area to the forest east of Lenos. It's a great help!"
"I'm so glad."
"I'll surely repay you as soon-"
"As you can see, even if the Church pursues me for it, I love the old pagan tales - the ones that haven't been twisted out for consideration of Church beliefs. As you are indeed a traveling merchant, Mr. Lawrence, surely you have even one story you could share with me. If you'll do that, I'll require no further payment."
"Understood,"
"People tend to gossip if I go to Diana's place alone, so you were a fine excuse."
"Ask me along anytime,"
"Hey there, lover boy."
"What's wrong?"
"Bah - here, have a drink."
"So about that information I asked you about this morning... Whoa, that's too much."
"Fine, fine."
"So, what was that? Have you changed your travel plans?"
"Indeed. There's a town, Lenos, at the headwaters of the Roam River. That's where I'm going."
"Well, that's quite a change indeed. And here I'd already collected quite a bit about the way to Nyohhira."
"Apologies. Circumstances have changed a bit."
"Oh ho!"
"So it's true that things have gone bad with that companion of yours?"
"What did you say?"
"Ha-ha-ha-ha. Word's gotten around, lover boy. Everyone knows you're holed up in a nice inn with a gorgeous nun. You've surely got no fear of God."
"We don't have the sort of relationship that makes for a good story over wine, but I don't see why you'd say things have gone bad with her."
"Heh-heh. The lover boy knows how to play dumb, that's for sure. But I can see the worry on your face."
"Well, there's no mistaking that she's a beauty. If things were to go poorly with us, it would be a shame."
"Why, just a moment ago, I heard that your companion was seen in the company of a young lad from our trade guild. Evidently they were getting on quite well."
"Ah, you mean Mr. Amati."
"Amati,"
"Mr."
"Oh, so you've given up already, then."
"You seem to be sadly mistaken. I simply had business today and was unable to accompany her, and Mr. Amati found himself with free time and wished to show us around town. These two events happened to coincide; that is all."
"Hmm..."
"You don't believe me?"
"I used to be a traveling merchant like you, so I'll give you some advice. Amati is more formidable than he seems."
"... What do you mean?"
"What I mean is, if you're careless, he'll snatch that pretty little companion of yours right out from under you. Men his age will do anything to gain the object of their obsession. And do you know how much fish Amati moves? It's a lot. And what's more, he was born in a pretty nice region of the south, but once he figured out that as the youngest child he'd never be allowed to make anything of himself, he ran away from home and came here to open his business. That was just three years ago. Quite a story, eh?"
"No need to worry. My companion is not so fickle."
"Ha-ha-ha. You've a lot of faith. If I heard my Adele was out with Amati, I'd give up right on the spot."
"What's this of me and Amati?"
"Uh, what I was saying was that if I ever saw you out with Amati, why, you're so dear to me that the flames of my jealousy would burn my very flesh!"
"Burn away, dear. I'll just light a fire with the cinders you leave behind to make some tasty bread for Mr. Amati."
"So then, Mr. Lawrence,"
"Drinking in the company of this sot must make the wine taste poorly. We'll be closing up shop here, so why don't you come by the house and help yourself to some dinner? The baby may be a bit noisy, though."
"I've still more business to attend to, unfortunately."
"Oh, indeed, you've unfinished business aplenty. And good luck to you."
"Ah, yes, so I'll keep your new destination in mind. I'll be keeping the shop open all during the festival, so I should be able to ask all about the route to Lenos."
"I appreciate it."
"Ugh... it's too tight. Come... help me with this, won't you?"
"If you're going to lie down, take off your muffler and shawl. They'll wrinkle otherwise."
"Hey, you - what else did you get him to buy you, eh?"
"Iron...? No."
"Food, drink, the scarf, and this die."
"Anything else?"
"That was all. Well, that and enough sweet talk to fill a lifetime,"
"So you ate and drank the night away, but then there's this muffler. I can't believe you'd go and accept such a thing..."
"It's fine fur, is it not? Though nothing compared with my tail."
"Did you make him buy this thing?"
"You think me so shameless? Why, he practically pressed it upon me. Rather fashionable of him, though, giving a muffler as a gift."
"He's quite mad about me, you know."
"I'm sorry, did I ask for a joke? You can't just call it over and done when you receive a gift this valuable. Here I just thought to let someone else show you a good time, but now look at the debt I carry!"
"So that was your plan all along, was it? I thought as much."
"I'm taking the consideration for this scarf out of your funds for the festival, just so you know."
"I trust you didn't show him your ears and tail at least?"
"You needn't worry. I am not quite that foolish."
"I suppose you were asked what sort of relationship you have with me."
"What I would like to know is precisely why you're asking."
"If our stories do not match, people will begin to suspect things."
"Mm. Right you are. Yes, I was quite thoroughly questioned. I am a traveling nun and you saved me from being sold off by evil men is what I told him."
"But once you saved me, I fell deeply into your debt, and as I cannot hope to repay it, I am gradually working it off by praying for your safety as we travel. Oh, alas and alack, woe is me! My voice was desperately sad as I told the tale. What do you think, eh? It has the ring of truth!"
"As soon as I told the tale, he bought me the muffler,"
"I suppose that will do. But what of this die? What made him buy you something like this?"
"Oh, that? The fortune-teller was using it. They say it's a die that can divine the future. It has a lovely shape, has it not? I can scarcely fathom how it was made. There's no doubt it'll sell for some fine coin."
"You fool. Do you actually think you can sell this?"
"This is no die. This is a mineral called pyrite. And no man made it."
"I suppose the wisewolf that guarantees the harvest would know little of rocks. That die-shaped stone was mined just as you see it."
"You should be able to tell that I'm not lying."
"It's not good for much, but it's often sold as a souvenir. And since it looks like gold, sometimes it's used by swindlers. Was anybody else buying it?"
"Oh, indeed. Many. The fortune-teller had great skill, enough to impress even me. He claimed that with dice like his, anyone could read the fates, so all that were gathered wanted the pyrite dice he was selling. He made up all manner of reasons why they were desirable."
"You mean the dice?"
"Indeed. Even the ones less perfect in shape than this he claimed would ward away sickness or evil."
"Amati bid down the price on that die, too."
"He bid it down?"
"The crowd had gotten quite enthusiastic. I'd not seen that sort of competition before - it was something to see, indeed. I expect I could sell the die quite dear now."
"Hm?"
"I apologize for calling so early in the morning. I have a message from my master."
"early in the morning,"
"So what was the message?"
"Oh, er, yes. He said you needed to know right away, so I ran over immediately. Actually-"
New Convo:

"Hey! It's the man himself! Haschmidt the Knight has arrived!"
"I say again!"
"I will pay the debt that now weighs upon the slender shoulders of this traveling nun - and when this goddess of loveliness does regain her freedom, I swear by Saint Lambardos, who watches over this Rowen Trade Guild, that Holo the nun will have my undying love!"
"Miss Holo has told me of her misfortune and ill treatment. I thus propose to use my fortune and position as a free man to regain for her the feathers of freedom, and furthermore to wed her."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"It is true that Holo is indebted to me and that she prays for me as we travel to repay that debt, but she will not necessarily abandon our journeying once that debt is lifted."
"True. But I am confident she will for my sake."
"Also, while she may not be perfectly devout, Holo is a nun, which makes marriage-"
"If you are worried that I do not fully understand the situation, then your concern, sir, is misplaced. I am aware that Holo is unattached to any convent."
"It is in truth not my desire to propose a contract to you thus, Mr. Lawrence. No doubt everyone here thinks me like Philip the Third from the tale of Haschmidt the Knight. However, according to Kumersun law, when a woman is indebted, her creditor is considered to be her guardian. Of course-"
"If you will unconditionally assent to my proposal of marriage, there is no need for this contract."
"Mr. Lawrence, will you accept this contract dagger?"
"I am not so careless to agree to a contract I have not read,"
"I assume this contract is to your satisfaction?"
"Understood,"
"The terms of the contract extend until the end of the festival - sundown tomorrow, in other words. Will that do?"
"Bring the thousand trenni in cash. I will not accept a partial payment or anything less than that."
"In that case, Mr. Lawrence, we'll meet again here tomorrow."
"I don't expect my companion will follow him simply because her debt has been lifted."
"Double for Lawrence, four times for Amati - who's betting?"
"It seems you've gotten wrapped up in quite a to-do."
"However, I think the young Mr. Amati has hit on a way to raise the capital."
"Surely not."
"I can't say it's the most admirable method, of course."
"It won't be long before the news is all over town, so I can't say too much. If I show too much support for you, it wouldn't be fair to poor Amati - after all, he screwed up his courage and made that impressive declaration. But I wanted to give you some warning."
"Why?"
"Whatever the circumstances, it is a good thing to have a traveling companion. It's hard to watch one be taken from a fellow wandering merchant."
"You might do well to return to your inn and formulate a counterplan."
"So did you accept this contract?"
"I did."
"Mm..."
"Listen, you."
"What?"
"What will you do if the boy actually gives you the money?"
"What do you mean, what will I do?"
"After I'd calculated the amount you've used, I'd give it to you."
"Do not test me."
"It's a bit unfair that I'm the only one who's tested, eh?"
"Hmph."
"If Amati should fulfill his part of the contract, I will certainly fulfill mine,"
"Oh ho."
"Of course, you've been free all along. You may act as you wish."
"Brimming with confidence, aren't you?"
"Its not confidence. I merely trust you."
"In truth, you're much more charming when you're nervous."
"Even I can tell how much I've matured."
"So it's more adult to simply pretend composure?"
"Isn't it?"
"Having room to boast because you've seen a gamble that's to your advantage just means you're a bit clever. It does not an adult make."
"For example, when Amati proposed the contract to you, would it not have been more admirable to refuse it?"
"But you looked around and judged whether or not you would be embarrassed."
"Uh-"
"Consider if our positions had been reversed. For example, thus-"
"I cannot consider entering into such a contract. I wish to stay always with Lawrence. It may be a bond of debt that binds us, but it is still a bond. No matter how many different threads may entwine us, I cannot bear to cut even a one. Even if it shames me, I cannot accept your contract - or some such statement. What do you think?"
"If someone said something like that about me, I would be beside myself with joy, I daresay,"
"Well, that might have been the manly thing to do, but whether or not it's the adult thing to do is another issue."
"True. It might be both the action of a good male and a reckless, youthful thing to do. One might be happy to hear it, but it is still rather rich."
"You see?"
"Mm. Now that I think on it, the actions that make a good male and those that make a good adult may be mutually exclusive. A good male is like a child. A good adult has a measure of cowardice."
"Well then, how would Holo the Wisewolf, who is both a good woman and a good adult, respond to such a proposal?"
"Why, I would smile and accept it, of course."
"Of course, upon accepting the contract, I would return to the inn and, saying nothing, draw near to you like so-"
"Then I would look down..."
"Still,"
"you're a good enough merchant. You entered the contract because you think you can win. No doubt you'll do some under-the-table deals just to make sure."
"'Take me to the festival,' is it?"
"Surely a fine merchant like yourself isn't shy of bribery to fulfill a contract, right?"
"Well, I've got to go gather information on Amati either way. I may as well bring you along."
"What you mean is you'll take me to the festival and gather information on the way."
"Fine, fine,"
"And anyway, it won't be me that's running about the town,"
"Still, is it all right to be running around with the beautiful maiden of the hour?"
"She wants to see the Laddora festival. And besides, if I locked her up in the inn, it really would look like I was keeping her bound by debt."
"So Sir Lawrence says, but what is the truth of it?"
"The truth is just that. I am bound by heavy chains of debt. Through them I can see no tomorrow, and from them I cannot escape. If you were to free me from them, I would happily coat myself in wheat flour working for you."
"Bwa-ha-ha! Oh, that poor Amati lad. Lawrence is the one bound by you, aye!"
"I've checked it out,"
"Oh? Well done. What do you have?"
"So what have you learned?"
"Ah, yes. Er, according to the taxation records, he was taxed on two hundred irehd."
"Two hundred irehd, eh? So that'd make it... what, about eight hundred trenni that Amati has on hand that the city council is aware of."
"Where's the town gambling hall?"
"Hey, just because we keep the Church in check doesn't mean it's a free-for-all. It's pretty much limited to cards, dice games, and rabbit chasing. There's also an upper limit on how much you can bet. He's not going to raise the money gambling."
"Oh, that's right. Apparently there's another bet on - about what's going to happen after the contract."
"After the contract?"
"Yes, if Amati wins the contract, who will be the victor after that."
"But you've got the advantage as far as the odds go."
"Maybe I should demand the bookmaker give me a cut."
"Ha-ha-ha. So what are you actually going to do?"
"Even if a question has a proper answer, sometimes one cannot simply give it away. For example, the mixing of your flour there."
"Erk-"
"I didn't tell her anything!"
"You want to ask what I'll do if he truly pays my debt, do you not?"
"At this point, all we can do is observe our opponent's actions,"
"How treacherous."
"I'd be happier if you called it a hidden contest. He'll certainly have someone watching our moves as well, you know,"
"I wonder about that. Amati ran away from home and came alone all the way to this town, achieving all his success independently. And there's his youth to consider. He's very self-confident. Not only does he not give much thought to the connections between merchants, he would probably consider tricks like that beneath him. He trusts only in his eye for good fish and his ability to sell them. That and the protection of the gods."
"That'd explain why he'd fall so hard for a charming girl who'd just arrived in town,"
"The townswomen are even more closely connected than the merchants. They seem to care only about reputation and are always watching each other. If one starts to stick out a little more, the others beat her down. I'm sure he finds it distasteful. Of course, not all women are like that, as I found out when I married my Adele."
"Amati may well be as you say, but I will not hesitate to use any connection I need to. Treachery may be forbidden when knights duel, but there's no crying in a contest of merchants."
"I surely agree,"
"I wish just once someone would attack me from the front."
"A horn?"
"Did I not just hear a shepherd's horn?"
"You did. I wasn't sure, but if you call it a shepherds horn, then it must be so."
"It fairly overflows with the scent of food here. I cannot tell if there are sheep or not."
"There would be sheep aplenty in the marketplace, but there's no need to blow a horn in town."
"And no comely shepherdesses."
"Hmph,"
"When you fail to react, it does rather feel like I am trying to win your affection."
"I'm just terribly delighted. Scarify so."
"Sounds like the festival has begun. Shall we go see?"
"'Twould be boring to do naught but eat."
"We'll have to be thankful to Amati on this count anyway."
"I'm going to go dance,"
"All right,"
"Just mind you don't tread on my feet,"
"... I will do my best."
"I've found how Amati plans to make the money - come to the shop as soon as you can."
"Diana"
"I'm just going out for a bit."
"... Quite, and with a letter from a female tucked near your breast?"
"Aye, and she's a beauty, I might add. Does it bother you?"
"... Fool."
"She's a chronicler. Do you know what that is? She's the one telling me about Yoitsu. She's quite knowledgeable about the tales from the northlands. I haven't read the letter yet, but just talking to her yesterday gained us some excellent information. I even heard a story about you."
"... A story? About me?"
"A town called Lenos has a story of you. Holoh of the Wheat Tail. That's you, is it not?"
"... I've no idea. But what do you mean by 'excellent information'?"
"Part of the tale included the direction from which you arrived in the town."
"I-in..."
"In truth?"
"I've no reason to lie, do I? Evidently you arrived in Lenos from the forest east of it, so the mountains southwest of Nyohhira and east of Lenos are where we'll find Yoitsu."
"I'm surprised you didn't cry."
"... Fool."
"Knowing only that it was to the southwest of Nyohhira would have made the search difficult, but now it will be much narrower. I haven't opened the letter yet, but I'm sure it has additional information. It should be much easier to find our destination now."
"I daresay we'll be able to find it within a half year."
"Mm!"
"So the sender of this note is like a dove bearing good news. Go reflect on your misguided assumptions."
"In any case, I'm now off to see Mark."
"With a letter tinged with a females scent tucked near your breast?"
"You said the sender was a beauty?"
"Oh, indeed, and fairly wrapped in adulthood."
"You're becoming a bit too adult and cunning."
"Also, apparently Amati's found a way to raise the thousand silver pieces he needs. I'm off to ask about that."
"Oh, aye? Well, do try to come up with some way to prevent me being purchased away, hmm?"
"If you want to read the letter, feel free to open it. If you can read, that is."
"Well, run along now."
"I must say, for someone asking a favor, you don't seem too worried."
"Apologies."
"Though I suppose I've time to spare aplenty during the festival,"
"Oh?"
"Oh, indeed. No one wants to lug heavy goods about while they take in the sights, do they? Especially something as bulky as wheat, which I sell before the festival begins and buy once it ends. Of course, the night festival is a different matter, though."
"And anyway, I've already turned a bit of a profit thanks to your information, so I suppose I'll let you off the hook this time."
"So you're on board, eh? What's his trick?"
"You're going to like this. I don't mean the trick is just clever - I mean it's like picking up gold off the street."
"I'm all ears,"
"I hear tell the knight Haschmidt is quite a dancer. If he keeps making merry like this, he may have to take the thousand silver and lose the lovely maid."
"You're certainly welcome to bet your whole fortune on Amati - it makes not a whit of difference to me."
"That Philip the Third has been saying some interesting things about you."
"Oh?"
"That you keep the poor girl in debt simply so you can take her wherever you please, that you treat her cruelly and feed her nothing but cold porridge - and so on."
"Anyway, what's this talk of profit?"
"Ah, yes. Once I'd heard that old Batos had figured it out, I put the pieces together."
"Precious gems, then?"
"Close, but no. You can hardly call it 'precious.'"
"Pyrite?"
"Oh, so you've already heard?"
"No, I'd just thought it might make a good business myself. Because of the fortune-teller, right?"
"That's what they say. Though that fortune-teller's already left town."
"I see."
"Yeah, the public story is that his fortune-telling was too good, so he was attracting the eye of a Church inquisitor, but that sounds pretty suspicious."
"Why suspicious?"
"First of all, if an inquisitor had actually come to town, it would be huge news. Secondly, there's just a little too much pyrite in circulation right now. My guess is he bought up somewhere else and left as soon as he'd sold all his stock. Also..."
"I think he was trying to exaggerate the rarity of pyrite. How much do you think this is worth right now?"
"One hundred irehd."
"Try two hundred seventy."
"Im-"
"To men like us, that'd be a ridiculous price even for a precious gem. But when the market opens tomorrow, it's going to rise even higher. Right now every woman in town is scheming to buy. Fortune-telling and secret beauty potions will always be in demand."
"But still - two hundred seventy? For this?"
"It doesn't even have to be die shaped. Other shapes have risen in value, too, thanks to the idea that each one serves a different purpose. The women come to the market and sweet-talk their fat-walleted merchant and farmer husbands into buying them the stuff. And if you want to talk about miracles, they're even starting to compete among each other, these women, to see who's been given the most pyrite. It's gotten to where the price rises with every word of flattery a woman speaks."
"It's not a question of what percentage of profit can be made on an investment now. It's a question of how many times, how many tens of times you'll multiply your money. Your Philip the Third has his eye on your princess, and he's making tremendous amounts of money to get her."
"I've just barely gotten my foot in the door, and I've already made three hundred irehd. That's how much the price is going up. It's not an opportunity to let go."
"Who else knows?"
"Apparently, it was spreading around the market this morning. I was actually late to the game. Incidentally, the line in front of the ore merchant's stall was going mad just about the time you were dancing with your princess."
"If Amati were doing something complicated, there would probably be something we could do to block him. As it is, I don't think we can. I'm sorry, friend, but you're a fish in a barrel here."
"Ah, I should mention that the news has already spread through the market, so the number of merchants looking to buy up pyrite to sell has driven the price even higher. What I'm saying is that the wind is just now picking up. If you don't hoist your sail, you'll regret it for the rest of your life."
"True enough. I'll not sit by and watch those ships sail away."
"That's the spirit! And hey, if worst comes to worst, you'll need money to buy a new princess, eh?"
"In that case, I'll just use some of my credit with you from those nails to take that pyrite off your hands,"
"You..."
"Whatever is the matter?"
"Is there something s-stuck to my face?"
"There's nothing on your face. You might be a bit drunk, though."
"Y-yes, quite. I-I must be drunk. Drunk i-indeed."
"What- what shall I do?"
"I've... I've nowhere to return to..."
"What shall I do..."
"Holo."
"It's just an old story, a legend. There are many legends that are mistaken."
"Mis... mistaken?"
"That's right. In places where a new king or faction takes over, they'll spread all kinds of tales like this to stake a claim to the new territory."
"No, if that were true, why - why would you hide it from me?"
"I was looking for the right time to speak. It's a delicate issue. So-"
"Heh,"
"I-It must have been terribly amusing, seeing me be so carefree."
"Holo, please, calm down."
"I'm qu-quite calm. Am I not the very picture of lucidity? You must have known about Yoitsu all along."
"You did, did you not? Did you not? You knew as soon as you met me. That explains so much."
"Hah. Y-you like sad, weak little lambs. So how was I, as I talked of returning to the homeland you knew was destroyed? Was I foolish enough? Charming enough? Was I sad and lovely enough? So much so that you'd forgive my selfishness and take pity on me?"
"And then you told me to go back to Nyohhira alone because you'd grown tired of me, no?"
"Is that really what you think?"
"Yes, it is!"
"Yes, I do think that! You are human! The only animal that raises other animals! It must have been so amusing for you as I foolishly took the bait that was Yoitsu and-"
"Holo."
"I-I'm all alone. Wh-what shall I-I do? No one awaits my return. There is no one for me. I'm... I'm alone..."
"You have me, don't you?"
"What are you to me? Nay - what am I to you?"
"No! I do not want to be alone anymore! I can't!"
"Come now... Would... would you lie with me?"
"I am all alone, I am. But with a child, that would make two. Look, I have taken human form. It is not impossible that with you, I could... Come, please..."
"Don't talk. I'm begging you."
"Heh. Aha... ha-ha-ha-ha. 'Tis true. You're too softhearted. I can expect nothing like that from you. But I care not. I've remembered, you see. There's... Yes, there's someone who loves me."
"That is why such talk did not cause you worry, is it not? That if you could receive a thousand silver coins for me, it would not be so regrettable to let me go?"
"... I am sorry,"
"sorry"
New Convo:

"..."
"Say, Ho-"
"lo,"
"If I were Holo, what would I do?"
"The demand for pyrite needs to fall."
"... And then?"
"Ten times? Twenty times? And then what... thirty? And after that?"
"Mr. Lawrence-"
"... I'm sorry, is there something...?"
"Ah, yes, I was told to give you a letter."
"Who is this from?"
"Your companion left it just a moment ago."
"Might I borrow a light?"
"These contents transcribed by another."
"... Wha...?"
"Fetch me all the coin I've left with you, if you please."
"Ah-"
"Good evening."
"No need for suspicion. I'm here for business."
"If you're here on business, it's all the more reason not to let down my guard,"
"Ha-ha, fair enough. Can you spare a moment?"
"Wine,"
"This is a nice, quiet place."
"You can't drink peacefully at most taverns. This place is special."
"So I know you must be surprised to see me but no more surprised than I was earlier today, so I think I can beg your indulgence."
"No, that is not the matter I am here to discuss. It does however inform my decision to come and talk business with you certainly, but that is all. Holo is entirely free to act as she will."
"However, given the reason for my proposing this deal to you, I can't very well call it normal."
"Just what is it you're scheming?"
"I'll get right to the point, then. It is my wish to sell you pyrite."
"What?"
"I wish to sell you pyrite. By current market value, it is roughly five hundred silver pieces' worth."
"Surely you jest."
"I am quite serious."
"You must be aware that I have done quite well reselling pyrite. What are you playing at, trying to sell it then to me? The more I have, the more money I can make. I cannot believe you would help me in this. Unless"
"it's true that as long as you collect the debt, you care not what becomes of Miss Holo."
"Far from it. Holo is very important to me."
"In that case, why-"
"Of course, I do not mean to simply sell it to you outright."
"I wish to sell it to you on margin."
"On... margin?"
"Quite."
"And what does that-"
"It means I will sell you five hundred trenni of pyrite tomorrow evening at its current market value."
"In that case, simply come to me tomorrow evening-"
"No, I'd like to receive the payment now."
"In other words, I'll accept five hundred silver pieces from you now, and tomorrow I'll give you five hundred silver pieces' worth of pyrite at today's market value."
"So what this means is that come tomorrow evening, even if the market value of pyrite has risen, I'll still receive what I would have gotten at today's price."
"Correct. For example, if I sold you a single piece of pyrite worth twelve hundred irehd on margin tonight, even if tomorrow's price is two thousand irehd, I still have to give you the pyrite."
"... Contrariwise, if the value has dropped to two hundred irehd by tomorrow, I still receive only the one piece, despite having paid twelve hundred the night before."
"Also correct."
"How is this different from an ordinary transaction?"
"No, wait. It is different."
"You, Mr. Lawrence, are trying to salvage some profit despite having arrived late to the game. Am I right?"
"If buying on margin allows you to gain a commodity without having the cash on hand, then selling on margin allows you to gain cash without having the commodity on hand. Buying on margin yields profit when the good rises in price, but selling on margin allows you to profit when the goods market value drops."
"This is quite a business, indeed. It seems my focus on fish has left me ignorant of much of the world. You chose me for this deal because... No, it goes without saying. If I buy five hundred silver pieces' worth of pyrite from you, I stand to gain if the market value of pyrite rises, but if it falls, my losses increase. When you profit - that is when I lose."
"So in other words, this is-"
"Mr. Amati, I am challenging you to a battle."
"Surely this cannot be called a 'battle.' A battle presupposes that both sides are equal, and this is not equal at all. I'm sure that you're not suggesting that this transaction would be meaningful only between you and me?"
"By which you mean...?"
"Surely you don't plan to conduct the deal without a certificate, and I assume this certificate could be sold to someone else, correct?"
"I would hardly expect you to accept my proposal otherwise,"
"It would be far too much risk; you would never accept it."
"Quite so. Even supposing the value of pyrite drops by tomorrow evening as you're predicting it will, as long as it reaches the value I need sometime during the day, I'll want to sell the certificate. If I weren't allowed to do that, I doubt I would accept the deal. But if I keep that ability, the deal remains unfair."
"It's unfair to you, Mr. Lawrence, since all I need is a slight increase in the price of pyrite to reach my goal. And yet I cannot accept a deal that leans in your favor."
"That may be true if you look at this transaction by itself, but if you'll look at the bigger picture, you'll see this amount of unfairness is actually quite fair."
"... By which you mean...?"
"By which I mean it is quite possible that Holo will simply tear up that marriage certificate. I assume you have a copy as well?"
"Even if you pay me the thousand silver to lift Holo's debt, there's no way for you to avoid the risk of her simply shaking her head no. Compared to that risk, the marginal unfairness I face is nothing."
"Hah. Don't you think that worry is unfounded? I understand you had quite a row with her,"
"In our travels together, Holo has cried in my arms three times."
"She was quite charming all three times, Holo was,"
"So it's a shame she's usually so stubborn. She often says and does things that are contrary to her true feelings. In other words-"
"I accept! I accept your proposal, Mr. Lawrence."
"Are you quite sure?"
"I say again: I accept. I was... if you'll pardon me, I was worried that it would be too cruel to take absolutely everything from you, Mr. Lawrence. But if this is the way you want it, I accept. I will take from you your fortune and everything you have!"
"So you'll accept these terms?"
"I shall!"
"In that case, let us sign the contract and be done with it."
"We'll settle this tomorrow evening, then,"
"I'll take my leave, then. Enjoy your wine,"
"What's this? Does the princess not require an escort?"
"Well, no matter - have a drink,"
"I'm not disturbing you?"
"You will be if you stay sober!"
"It's fine ale."
"It's been a good harvest this year for all wheat. When there's a bad harvest, the barley that normally goes to ale is put toward bread instead. I'll have to thank the god of the harvest."
"Hah, quite so,"
"Listen, this may not be the best discussion to match good ale, but..."
"Is there profit in it?"
"That's hard to say. There might be gain in it, though that's not my aim."
"You're too honest, friend. You should've said there's money in it. I'd have gladly helped you."
"I'll pay you for your trouble, and there may yet be profit in it."
"Do tell."
"After the festival ends is when the wheat buying begins in earnest, yes?"
"Oh, aye."
"I'd like you to spread a rumor for me."
"I won't do anything risky."
"It might be risky for you to spread it, but your apprentice can do so with no trouble at all."
"Go on."
"At my signal, I want someone to begin saying that it seems about time for the price of wheat to rise."
"You're trying to lower the price of that mineral."
"Exactly so."
"I wouldn't have figured you to come up with such a simpleminded idea."
"What if I told you that I was planning to sell off a considerable amount of pyrite at the same time?"
"How much?"
"One thousand trenni worth."
"Wha-! One thousand? Are you insane? Do you have any idea how much you might lose in the process?"
"So long as I've five hundred silver pieces' worth of pyrite when this is all over, it matters nothing to me whether the price rises or falls."
"Damn. Selling on margin, are you?"
"I must say I feel bad for that poor, ignorant fishmonger."
"You'd think he would understand how dangerous it is to take part in a deal he's not used to,"
"No - he knows the risks, and he accepted. I explained that much."
"So, was that all you needed?"
"No, there's one more thing."
"I'm all ears."
"I want you to help me buy up pyrite."
"You didn't secure a source before making the margin contract?"
"There wasn't time. Will you help me?"
"Payments will be in cash. I'll even pay over market value. If the quantity is enough, I can even pay in lumione."
"I'll make it worth your trouble,"
"I can't."
"I see, so... Wait, what?"
"I can't,"
"Wha-"
"I cannot help you with this,"
"I'll pay you a consideration and not a paltry service fee, either. You've nothing to lose. It's a good trade, is it not?"
"I've nothing to lose?"
"But you don't, do you? I'm asking you to help me find and purchase pyrite, not shoulder a risky investment. What have you to lose?"
"Lawrence."
"You'd be able to pay me, say, ten lumione at the outside, am I right?"
"Well, given that you're simply making some purchases for me, that's more than generous, I should think. It is not as though I'm asking you to cross a mountain range alone and bring back an entire caravan's worth of ore."
"But you are asking me to go about the marketplace and buy up pyrite, are you not? It amounts to the same thing."
"How is that-?"
"Er - I mean, how is that the same thing? I'm hardly asking you to run around all night or to traverse some treacherous mountain pass. I'm simply asking you to help me buy pyrite with your connections."
"It's the same thing, Lawrence,"
"You're a traveling merchant who crosses the plains; I do battle in the 164/234 marketplace. The dangers you see, they're the dangers of the traveling merchant."
"So..."
"To a town merchant, leaping at every chance to make a quick profit is no virtue. It's making a steady living through an honest, reliable business that makes my reputation, not making big profits on fleeting side jobs. I may be the owner of this stall, but its reputation is not just mine. It extends to my wife, my relatives, and anyone connected with it. If it's making a bit of coin on the side, that's surely not a bad thing..."
"... But helping you find and buy five hundred trenni of pyrite is quite another matter. How do you think the townspeople would view me and mine? Would they not think of me as a villain, who cares nothing for his real business and has eyes only on easy riches? Can you pay me enough to take that risk? I was once a traveling merchant myself, and I'd venture to say the trifling sums a traveling merchant handles cannot compare to the amounts town merchants deal with."
"This shop may seem small, but the value of its name is surprisingly high. If the name were to be tarnished, ten or twenty gold pieces would be far from enough to cover it."
"That's how it is."
"I am sorry,"
"N-no, I should apologize for asking the impossible."
"So even the ever-composed Lawrence gets like this sometimes, eh?"
"Ah, apologies,"
"Don't be angry. It just seems unusual,"
"I can't say I'm surprised with your companion being who she is and all. But you needn't go to all this effort to stop Amati, do you? Surely she won't leave you so easily. I thought as much the first time I saw her at your side. Have more confidence, man!"
"She gave me a signed marriage certificate. The other party is Amati naturally."
"If nothing had happened, sure, I'd have more confidence. But something did happen."
"So it happened after you came by here? We never know what lies even a step ahead in life, do we? But you still have hope, so you're still running - I see."
"Still,"
"I knew she was a person to be reckoned with, but I can't believe she'd be so bold... Anyway, do you have any other leads?"
"I expect I'll go talk to Mr. Batos next."
"Batos, eh? Ah, so you're going to have him talk to the woman for you,"
"... The woman?"
"Huh? Oh, so you're not going to have him talk to her for you? The chronicler, I mean. You met her, right?"
"If you mean Miss Diana, I've met her, but I don't see what she has to do with this."
"So long as you're not worried about the consequences, you might try dealing with her."
"Look, what are you talking about?"
"She practically coordinates the northern regions. Especially the alchemists - you might as well call her their storefront. It's because of her that the alchemists that have managed to escape persecution gather here, from our perspective. Of course, only the local nobility and elders of the town council know the details. Oh, and-"
"Everybody knows that the alchemists have pyrite, but nobody wants to make waves, so they don't do business with alchemists. In old Batos's case, he deals mostly with the alchemists and rarely with anybody else. No - it's more accurate to say he can't deal with anyone else because he deals with alchemists. So 167/234 if you can risk the trouble it might bring, getting Batos to talk to the woman for you is an option."
"Depending on the circumstances, it might be worth trying. The flames are getting quite close, after all, are they not?"
"I'm actually quite pleased that you'd turn to me for help, but this is all I can do for you,"
"No, I appreciate it. I nearly overlooked a huge opportunity."
"I know I refused you... but I'll be praying for your success nonetheless."
"You've taught me something valuable. That alone was worth my time,"
"I may not be able to help you directly, but I might be able to whisper the condition of someone's wallet in your ear."
"Come by the shop later. I can at least tell you who to buy from."
"... Thank you, truly,"
"When you make that face, I guess I see why that girl would be so bold."
"... What do you mean?"
"Ah, nothing. Just that merchants should stick to business."
"Good luck to you,"
"Thanks."
"I apologize for interrupting in the middle of your celebration,"
"Ho there, Mr. Lawrence. What can I do for you?"
"I'm sorry this is so sudden, but I need to speak with you."
"Business, is it?"
"We'll talk over there. We can't let these old codgers steal all our profit, after all."
"We'll keep on without you."
"So what is it you want to speak about?"
"I'm trying to lay in pyrite. I'm looking for someone with a stockpile, and I thought you might have some idea of where to start."
"Pyrite?"
"Yes."
"Have you any leads?"
"Mr. Lawrence, you-"
"Yes?"
"Do you remember what I said when I told you about what the young Amati was planning?"
"Not only that, I remember that Miss Diana hates business discussions."
"So you're eyeing the alchemists' stock, are you?"
"That will make this conversation easy - yes. However, I've heard that without Miss Diana's permission, no business can be had. That is why I've come to you."
"Is pyrite so lucrative that knowing all this, you still wish to deal with them?"
"No, that is not it."
"Then... you want to know your fortune or ward away illness as pyrite is rumored to do?"
"I am acting in my own interest. That I will not deny."
"But I'm not after it because I'm trying to gain from the pyrite bubble. My aim is more... more basic."
"Mr. Batos, you're a traveling merchant, so surely you've had times when the goods you're hauling fall into a crevasse."
"When our wagon sinks in a mire, we weigh the difficulty of saving it against abandoning it to the mud. The value of the goods, the gain, the amount of cash on hand, the cost of getting assistance - the danger of being attacked by brigands even - we weigh it all and decide to abandon the cargo or not to."
"And you've found yourself thus, have you?"
"I have."
"I am determined not to abandon my load. So long as I can get it back on my cart, I am willing to risk a bit of trouble."
"cargo"
"That's what I wanted to see,"
"It's a good merchant that can wait, even if time is short, when that's the only option left to him."
"Of course, I was even pushier back in the old days."
"Er..."
"Ah, yes. I've no supply of pyrite, sad to say. But surely the alchemists do."
"So, then-"
"All you need say is 'I've come to buy a box of white feathers.' That should get you in the door. The rest is up to you. You'll have to be quite clever with dear Diana. I doubt anyone has gone to buy pyrite there yet."
"Thank you very much. By way of thanks-"
"As long as you'll tell me a good tale, I'll call it even. What do you think? Do I sound as dignified as Diana?"
"You never know when she's sleeping, Diana, so you should be able to go over there right now. And if you're going, you should go soon. Time is money and all."
"If you take the back way, you can leave without answering any questions."
"Excuse me, is anyone home?"
"Who is it?"
"I apologize for disturbing you at this late hour. I am Lawrence; I visited you yesterday with Mr. Batos."
"I know it's very rude, but I had to come."
"I wish to buy a box of white feathers."
"My goodness, so many guests all on the same day. The festival really does bring people out,"
"I expect it was Mr. Batos that told you to ask for a box of white feathers?"
"Ah, yes. I'm sorry to say I forced the issue and made him tell me how to meet with you..."
"Goodness, really? I have a hard time imagining anyone forcing Batos to do anything,"
"So what business is it that's so pressing you managed to convince that stubborn old coot?"
"I need to purchase pyrite,"
"I hear the price has gotten quite high."
"That's not-"
"Of course, dear Mr. Batos would never have helped you over something as simple as mere profit. So there must be some other reason, no?"
"It's not business. I need pyrite for a battle."
"A battle with whom?"
"It's..."
"No, it's-"
"It's against my cargo."
"Cargo?"
"A traveling merchant's enemy is always his cargo. Estimating its value, planning for its transport, deciding upon its destination. If he 177/234 errs in even one of these, he will lose. At this very moment, I am trying to recover a piece that has fallen from my wagon. Having reevaluated the value, the transport, and the destination, I have realized that this is a piece of cargo I cannot afford to lose."
"'Buying a box of white feathers' is nothing more than a glorified password. All it means is that I don't mind so long as I'm able to have a bit of fun. Does a bird not drop feathers when it beats its wings excitedly? Those people that I give my password to help me choose my visitors carefully, so all I need to do is glance at them to tell. I don't mind a bit as far as pyrite goes. Buy it up as you please."
"Thank-"
"However,"
"Someone has already come to buy."
"How much did they buy? What did it sell at?"
"Do calm yourself. The customer in question bought on credit and did not leave with the pyrite. You could say they simply made an order. For my part, I wouldn't mind letting you have the material instead. Let us try to negotiate with the first party, shall we? As for the amount, I seem to recall it being sixteen thousand irehd worth at current market value."
"I understand. Might you tell me who the buyer was...?"
"I will handle the negotiation. For safety's sake, we do not allow others to know the identity of those who have dealt with us alchemists."
"B-but-"
"You have an objection?"
"You've said this is a battle, so I presume the circumstances are not ordinary. I will help all I can and let you know the results as soon as possible. Where will I be able to find you tomorrow?"
"Ah, er... the marketplace in front of the stone seller's booth. I'll be there the entire time the market is open. Otherwise, if you contact Mark the wheat seller, his stand is..."
"I know the place. I'll send a messenger as soon as I'm able."
"Thank you."
"I won't hesitate to pay a considerable sum. I can't pay double market value or anything like that, but please inform them I will be quite generous."
"I do apologize for calling so suddenly at this hour."
"Not at all. Night and day are meaningless to me."
"And so long as you've brought interesting stories, you could stay all night and I wouldn't mind a bit."
"Is something wrong?"
"Being so mysterious when you leave a woman's home - honestly, you'll be lucky if the gods don't punish you,"
"I... have a question."
"Ask whatever you like,"
"Are there any stories of gods... and humans, that is... falling in love, becoming a pair?"
"There are many."
"Really?"
"Yes, for example - ah, but I'm sorry. You were in a hurry."
"Ah, er, yes. But perhaps later... if you wouldn't mind, I would very much like to hear the details."
"Certainly."
"Good luck to you."
"Any luck?"
"Just what you see,"
"I spoke with Diana, but someone's beaten me to it. No telling how this'll turn out."
"Someone got there first?"
"I've no choice but to place my hopes in what you told me."
"Ah... yes, about that."
"So? Let's hear the results."
"If we pay in trenni silver, then... three hundred seventy pieces' worth of py-"
"Don't just say it in front of everyone!"
"So that's how it is."
"Ha-ha, I can't help but enjoy it when you make that face. See, after you left, I thought it over."
"I refused your request because I have a reputation to uphold. Any other town merchant would do the same. But even I have bought some you-know-what to make some money on the side - and many others have done likewise. The reason I can only buy a limited amount is that I have very little cash on hand. By all rights, the price of wheat should be dropping since the people laying in goods for their return trips haven't been buying wheat. And yet the people who've come to sell wheat are selling it right off - which is where all my cash has gone. So..."
"So what of the people who do have cash? I can't believe they'd be able to resist. They've probably been buying up you-know-what in large quantities behind the scenes. And here's where you need some backstory. You see, these merchants aren't lone wolves like you. Each one has their business, their position, their reputation. And they've bought this stuff, but the price has risen so high that it's getting hard to sell. All they need do is sell a little bit to bring in a surprising profit, but this makes some of them even more nervous. So what happens next? I'm sure a clever fellow like you can figure it out."
"So that's how it is. If you're on board, I'll send the boy out immediately."
"Still-"
"Sorry,"
"This is when you thank me, right?"
"Ah, er, yes, sor... no, I mean-"
"I mean, thanks."
"Bwa-ha-ha-ha! If I'd known you were such an amusing guy, I'd have... Actually, I suppose not."
"You've changed,"
"... Is that so?"
"Quite. You used to be not an excellent merchant, but a merchant wholly from head to toe. That's all there was of you. You never even truly thought of me as a friend, did you?"
"But what of now? Am I merely a convenient merchant to do a deal with?"
"That's why I could never content myself with the life of a traveling merchant. But there's something even more interesting."
"Let me ask you one thing. If it were me whose separation you were faced with, would you be running around town as frantically as you are now?"
"yes"
"Ha-ha-ha-ha. Well, I look forward to the future. Still"
"it's for your companion that you're so desperate."
"This is what a man looks like when he's obsessed with a woman. But it's the unbending branch that breaks in a strong wind."
"You're no different from me. You've got the traveling merchant's curse,"
"C-curse?"
"But it's almost broken, which is what's made you so amusing. Do you not see? Did you not begin traveling with your current companion out of nothing more than good fortune?"
"Bwa-ha-ha! I feel like I'm looking at myself when I first met Adele! You've got the curse, all right."
"The curse... You mean that famous 'traveling merchant's complaint'?"
"The poets will tell you that money can't buy love, and the priest will tell you that there are things more precious than money. But if that's so, why is it we labor so hard to earn money, then gain something even more precious?"
"What am I to you?"
"Ah, such a fine tale I've not told in a long time. Combined with the information on conditions in the north, why, ten lumione seems a bargain!"
"If you'd made all this up, it'd be extortion,"
"I hope all goes well for you."
"Though I suppose how it turns out is up to you..."
"Hm?"
"Ah, nothing,"
"Right, off with you, then."
"So where will you be sleeping tonight?"
"Haven't decided yet."
"Well, then-"
"Wait, I've decided. May I sleep here?"
"Here?"
"Quite - you've wheat sacks aplenty. Lend me a few of those."
"I can certainly lend you some, but come to my house. I won't even charge you."
"Ah, but this will bring luck."
"I'll see you here, dawn tomorrow."
"A toast then to your dreams."
New Convo:

"..."
"Oh, good morning, sir."
"Good morning,"
"Ah, that reminds me-"
"Did you hear from Mark what's happening today?"
"Er, no... are we not forcing the dastardly villain into a trap?"
"I can't tell you all the details, but that's it, more or less. I may have to ask a serious favor of you in the process."
"dastardly villains"
"What's your name, lad?"
"Ah, er, it's-"
"Landt. My name is Eu Landt."
"Born in the northlands, were you?"
"Yes, from a village frozen in snow and frost."
"I see. Well, I'm counting on you today, Landt."
"Well then, first let's fill our bellies, eh? Is there anyplace nearby that's selling food yet?"
"There's a stand that sells dry bread to travelers. Shall I go and buy some?"
"Indeed,"
"Er, one piece should be plenty,"
"The other's an advance on your help today. Of course, I'll pay you a proper consideration when it's all done."
"If you dawdle, Mark's liable to arrive. No doubt he'll claim breakfast is a luxury, don't you think?"
"Don't you spoil my apprentice now."
"You could've stopped me."
"It's gotten cold lately. If he takes ill because I haven't let him eat enough, that's more trouble for me."
"Should be good weather today,"
"Good for selling,"
"Right then, time to fill my stomach,"
"Looks like the average price is... eight hundred irehd."
"Good morning, Mr. Lawrence."
"And to you."
"Things are going to become quite hectic once the bell rings, so I thought it would be best to turn this over to you ahead of time,"
"What's this?"
"This is the promised amount,"
"It might have been a bit presumptuous of me,"
"but three hundred silver pieces would be quite cumbersome, so I took the liberty of remitting in gold limar coins."
"I've used today's exchange rate to prepare the amount. Fourteen gold limar."
"... Understood. I accept."
"Do you not wish to count the coins?"
"There's no need,"
"In that case, I'd like the contract for three hundred silver."
"Very well."
"Huh?"
"It couldn't be-"
"Um, excuse me-"
"Um, Mr. Lawrence, may I have a moment?"
"A customer has come to our shop wishing to pay for wheat in pyrite."
"How much?"
"Two hundred fifty silver,"
"Go, as fast as you can."
"A purchase is in!"
"I'm here to sell!"
"Mr. Lawrence."
"Ooooh!"
"Excuse me, are you Mr. Lawrence?"
"Mr. Lawrence, I presume?"
"I have a message from Miss Diana."
"She wishes to tell you that the negotiations have failed."
"What?"
"The other party is unwilling to sell. Miss Diana apologizes for being unable to live up to your expectations,"
"Mr. Lawrence...?"
"Oh, er, sorry... You've... you've done a lot of running around for me. Thanks."
"Oh no, not at all."
"Could you give Mark a message for me? Tell him my plan has failed,"
"failure,"
"Mr. Lawrence."
"Are - are you giving up?"
"My master always tells me that merchants never give up."
"My master always says that it's not- it's not those who pray that the god of wealth watches over. It's the stubborn ones who never give in that he blesses."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"I..."
"I liked H-Holo from the first time I saw her. But my master told me-"
"He said that if I said that in front of you, I'd get a sound beating."
"-!"
"Yes, I suppose I should give you a beating. A sound one, too,"
"The ones who just can't give up - they're the same ones who just can't stop themselves from being so optimistic you wouldn't believe it,"
"A merchant makes plans, predicts the outcome, and always holds the results up to the light of reality. Understand?"
"If selling one item causes something to change thus, another item will cause it to change so. Such hypotheses are also important, you see."
"But if I'm honest, these hypotheses can be anything you might like them to be. If you make too many, you'll become lost, seeing danger and risk in every deal you do. To avoid that, you need some kind of guidepost - something to believe. It's the one thing every merchant needs."
"I see,"
"If you can believe in that guidepost, then no matter how absurd the idea it leads you to..."
"... You can trust it."
"Once I sell my stones at the stall, start spreading the rumor I asked you to."
"Good lad."
"Do you believe in the gods?"
"There's a good lad,"
"Yes?"
"You're making out pretty well today."
"I'm selling."
"Master, I too shall sell."
"You fool,"
"Sorry."
"She's quite the grown-up beauty, unlike a certain someone I could name,"
"So, this contract is over, then?"
"It's over, all right. As cleanly as we could ever hope."
"This is your punishment for trying to take another man's woman,"
"Lawrence's woman,"
"Surely you do not think that this is all over and done with."
"I'm sorry."
"Do you truly know where you went wrong?"
"I know."
"At least... I think I know."
"I'm sorry"
"When I started doing things on my own after the contract with Amati, I was being utterly self-centered."
"The point is... my biggest mistake was not trusting you."
"I shall hear you out,"
"The feathers you attached to your hood - those were to let me know you'd bought pyrite from Diana."
"Yet when Amati sold his pyrite at the stall, trying to bluff me, I thought it was a trap you'd set for me."
"Wha-"
"What exactly do you mean by that?"
"I thought it was a ruse to fool me into acting too soon. When I saw Amati make his move, I assumed you were completely on his side - the white feathers were the furthest thing from my mind. But - the truth was just the opposite... wasn't it?"
"You wanted to tell me that Amati had fully enough pyrite on hand and that I should move quickly to sell mine off. Right?"
"Honestly..."
"And before that, the fact that you would sign the marriage certificate with Amati, that was..."
"... It was to make it easy for me to be angry... Wasn't it?"
"Didn't I tell you in Ruvinheigen? Don't be clever and subtle all the time - tell me what you're thinking! If we can just yell at each other, problems get solved a lot faster."
"So I was wrong from the start."
"When... when you lost control because of the business of Yoitsu... that last apology you gave me, that was-"
"-That was because you'd come to your senses... wasn't it?"
"You - you fool!"
"They say, 'A fool's errand is worse than sloth,' it is even so! Not only did you render useless my efforts, but you thought I was your enemy? And then for some reason, you go and pursue that contract with the boy! Do you have any notion how difficult that made things for me? We may have only met recently, you and I, but I'm of the feeling that we share an uncommon bond! Am I deluding myself? Or do you really-"
"I wish to continue traveling with you."
"My life has been naught but business from dawn to dusk, and I plan to keep it that way. Just think of me as a little slow when it comes to anything besides business."
"And yet - I do wish to travel with you."
"Well... what am I to you?"
"It cannot be explained in words."
"What sort of dried-up old line is that?"
"Ah, but I thought dried jerky was your favorite!"
"I hate it!"
"Though I do have one question for you,"
"Oh?"
"How did you know there was pyrite in the alchemists' quarter - wait, no, Amati probably told you. What I want to know is, how did you get Diana to sell it to you? I just can't see it."
"Oh, that?"
"The boy Amati told me everything he knew, so I was able to make a fair guess at what you were planning. But your plan was, well - I should compliment you."
"Yes, so - Diana, was it? I went to see her for a different reason truthfully."
"A different reason?"
"I suppose you could call it a favor. I tracked down the location from the scent on the letter. The place stank like the worst hot springs - it was far from enjoyable."
"So I asked her thus. I asked her if she would not invent a story of Yoitsu still existing and if she would pass it on to you."
"However,"
"That girl just had me explain all the circumstances to her only to turn me down."
"Oh... really?"
"It was your fault that I was refused! Consider that, why don't you!"
"Honestly... I suffer through the humiliation of explaining everything and am on the very cusp of success, then you show up and make that girl come up with her pointless plan."
"She said it would be good to test your resolve - the gall, acting as if she knows me!"
"I also heard that foolish question you put to her."
"Ah-!"
"So there are many stories of gods and humans becoming mates, eh?"
"If that is how you feel, I would not mind. Though I'd ask..."
"... I'd ask you to be gentle with me."
"Mm. I just cannot seem to rouse myself after talking to that girl,"
"Did you notice that she was not human?"
"surely not."
"You saw the feathers scattered about her room, yes? Those were hers."
"... They were?"
"Her true form is a bird, much larger than you. She fell in love with a traveling monk and spent many years building a church with him, but eventually he noticed that no matter how many years passed, the girl never aged - thus the monk grew suspicious. No doubt you can guess the rest."
"I wish to return to my homeland. Even... even if it's no longer there."
"We will."
"Humans are so showy."
"They surely are."
"Shall we go?"
"I suppose we shall?"
"For my part, I would not mind you being as passionate as those flames."
"I suppose if I were drunk enough."
"If you become drunk, who's to watch over me? Fool!"