
New Convo:

"Evidently"
"'Tis the sea! The sea!"
"Hmm?"
"The tail you're so very proud of."
"Still, though - the sea!"
"I know, I know. Could you not calm yourself a bit? You're like a dog seeing snow for the first time."
"Urgh... how can one remain calm? 'Tis so vast! Vaster than the vastest plain I've ever seen! 'Tis well they call it 'the deep'!"
"You've seen the sea before, haven't you?"
"Aye. I've run my heart out along the beach, jumping into the waves out of a longing to cross the ocean. How grand it would be if I could race over its boundless surface - when humans see birds, do they not long to fly? How can you not long to run, seeing the sea?"
"I might well wonder what lands lay far across the ocean, but even then, I hardly feel like running over it."
"You're a useless male."
"Here, get under this blanket. If you keep running around in the cold and wet, you'll catch cold."
"Mmph... 'Tis a shame the sea wind is so wet. The salt smell confuses my nose, it does."
"Oh, by the way-"
"Hmm?"
"I faintly saw a bit of land ahead. Is that our destination?"
"No, that's just another island. We'll head north from here and probably arrive in the evening."
"Hmm. Well, I surely hope the wind blows steady."
"The wind?"
"We'll make no progress with a headwind, will we? 'Tis well now, though, with our sails full of a tailwind."
"True,"
"But a ship can make progress even with a headwind. It's a bit slower, of course."
"..."
"I can understand why you might not believe it without seeing it. But even with a headwind, a boat heads diagonally into the wind, tacking left, then right. Evidently the first sailors to discover this technique were accused of witchcraft by the Church."
"..."
"Still, to think we'd end up crossing the sea,"
"I suppose your beloved horse is resting easy, munching on hay at this very moment."
"It's not as though I wanted to give him a break - there's just little for him to do right now. I envy him."
"Oh ho, whence this bitterness?"
"I suppose it's true that both of us are on a hiatus from our work... but it would be nice to just relax, that's all I meant."
"Still, you did receive a reward for all that trouble, did you not? Surely 'twill count as a bit of savings, anyway."
"... Ah, so you're the reason those silver coins went missing from my coin purse, eh?"
"Without my help, you'd hardly have managed such a crisis. Given that, my price is a cheap one,"
"Surely you gave the boy his share, too, yes?"
"Still, the Great Abbey of Brondel will be a troublesome place."
"Is it filled with bigoted old men?"
"'The great abbey of Brondel's reputation precedes it far and wide. Its august grandeur makes pagan gods tremble, and its magnificence supports countless men. Ah, mighty abbey of Brondel, dwelling place of the most high God.'"
"Of course, regardless of how many saints it may have produced long ago, these days people like us should feel right at home there."
"Hmm?"
"Its holy reputation means it receives huge donations of land and truly outlandish tithes - and given that, they have to manage those assets, whether they want to or not. And being the dwelling place of God, they have keep those assets sparkling. These days it's practically a trading company itself. And as it's run by an arrogant monk, it's got all the ingredients to be a nasty place indeed."
"And the bones we seek are in this nasty place?"
"There's a good chance of that, but in any case they'll be hidden away behind the great walls of the abbey. They say God himself doesn't know what happens within them."
"I once heard a sermon that said nothing can be truly hidden."
"Your feelings show up well enough in your ears and tail, it's true."
"Aye, and yours are all over your face,"
"Wake me once we've arrived."
"Come, you, if we don't find an inn soon, we'll all freeze on the spot,"
"Didn't it snow often in your homelands? Have a little endurance."
"You fool - should I cover myself in fur right here, then?"
"'See Mr. Deutchmann of the Tyler Company,' eh?"
"And who are you?"
"My deepest apologies for the late hour. I'm hoping to see Mr. Deutchmann of the Tyler Company."
"Deutchmann? And you are-?"
"Kraft Lawrence of the Rowen Trade Guild. I come by Lud Kieman of Kerube,"
"Just a moment, please,"
"My apologies for keeping you waiting. Please do come in, Mr. Lawrence."
"Ah, thank you."
"This way, please."
"Was the sea very rough?"
"Not at all. Perhaps God blessed our journey, as it was an easy one."
"I'm happy to hear it. Not long ago I heard it was very rough indeed somewhat north of here. Normally the current flows south to north, but it was so bad the flow reversed itself."
"The seas in this area are not usually so rough, but once roused they can be quite persistent. Normally when the snow falls, it's as still as a pond."
"I see. Perhaps that's why so many of the people here are so gentle and refined."
"Ha-ha-ha! We're just a bunch of choleric opportunists, that's all."
"This way,"
"Do come in."
"These are the sheep that bring us such wealth, though I can hardly show this to the Church."
"I am Amn Deutchmann, and I'm in charge of wool trading at this company."
"My most humble apologies for the sudden visit. I am Kraft Lawrence of the Rowen Trade Guild."
"Well, do sit down."
"Thank you."
"Now, then, I must say I could scarcely hide my surprise at seeing Mr. Kieman's name come up - he was once called 'the Eye of Kerube.' To say nothing of the name Bolan. I must wonder just what sort of terrifying deal I'm going to be asked to swallow here!"
"A king only gives thanks to his subjects during wartime. In such times, even a cup of water can seem like a gift of fine furs."
"Oh ho. So there's some sort of disturbance in Kerube, is there?"
"I'm sure you'll hear of it shortly. I'd be perfectly happy to tell you about it myself, though I'm not certain you would believe me."
"Miracles do happen in business!"
"Now, then, about this letter of yours."
"Yes, sir."
"You say you wish to visit the great Brondel Abbey?"
"Yes. I was hoping for help in visiting them for a reason other than buying wool."
"Oh ho."
"I believe that pilgrims to the abbey are only received at a building separate from the central complex and aren't allowed to approach the abbey itself."
"That is true. Even among those connected to the abbey, only a few are allowed entry. As you may well know, even wool trading is done at a specially designated branch. So..."
"It's no easy task to knock on the doors of the main abbey."
"Indeed, it is not, Mr. Lawrence. Of course, the mercantile branch is the main abbey's lifeline, so it does have some connection... but... surely you're not suggesting..."
"I am not a political agent. Please rest assured."
"My apologies if I've made you uncomfortable."
"Hardly. It's only natural you'd be suspicious, I should think."
"Thank you very much. But this is precisely the sort of problem that Brondel Abbey is facing at the moment."
"Oh?"
"Please, drink. It's sheep's milk with honey and ginger. This time of year, kings and commoners alike drink it. It'll warm you."
"Well, thank you."
"So, about what I was saying."
"Yes, quite."
"Mr. Lawrence, did anything in particular strike you when you saw the port today?"
"Out of what I supposed was a combination of the chill and the hour, it seemed a bit desolate."
"Yes, you're quite right. Business has been bad recently - and I'm not saying that just to make merchant small talk. It's the truth."
"... You'll have to forgive me, but as a traveling merchant from the mainland, I'm not terribly familiar with the circumstances here."
"I see. Not even of King Sufon's ban?"
"Embarrassingly, no."
"To put it plainly, imports have been banned. Exports are fine. But wheat and wine are the only imports allowed. The goal is-"
"-to stop the loss of currency, I assume."
"You assume correctly. King Sufon has been on the throne for five years, and his greatest goal is to make his nation wealthy. But wool sales have steadily dropped - the last few years have been truly awful. And given that Winfiel has little else it can export abroad, it only stands to reason that the more our imports exceed our exports, the poorer our nation becomes. Which is why the king, who has no experience with business, came up with that solution."
"No merchant will trouble himself to come here once he learns he won't be allowed to sell his goods. The number of ships in the harbor 29/244 has dropped, and the inns are all empty. The taverns sell no wine, nor meat, nor do travelers buy any blankets or mantles. Stables are on the verge of ruin just feeding their horses, and the money changers have nothing to weigh save the dust on their scales."
"It's a vicious cycle."
"Exactly. A king who knows how to swing a sword is at a loss when it comes to applying his mind. Given the situation, it's no surprise conditions are so bad. Currency vanished from the town in the blink of an eye, and now look - here we are."
"It looks like this because they've mixed copper and who knows what else in with the silver. I hear it's so bad that not even the best money changers can tell how much silver's left. When a coin loses its faith, it's no longer useful for business. I hear some landlords have been hoarding copper coins from the mainland so they can at least buy themselves some bread, but that's a drop in the bucket. And yet with things so bad, the king only turns harsher, so..."
"And so now merchants have started appearing with an eye toward taking advantage of the situation."
"You speak of those who come not to buy goods, but assets."
"Exactly so. Just like sharks attacking a wounded fish. So you see why I was worried you were such a man."
"I see. It does seem likely that Brondel Abbey will become a target. It possesses reputation, influence, and assets aplenty."
"Indeed."
"Incidentally, just who is acting as the shark?"
"The crest of the moon and shield."
"...!"
"Even so. The Ruvik Alliance, whose home territory is the whole of the northlands. It is they who play the shark."
"Naturally we're all too terrified to do anything, so we've been reduced to mere bystanders. And they're following the rules. They haven't interfered with the wool trade."
"I suppose their goal is the land held by the abbey."
"Yes. My guess is they're trying to acquire the abbey's territory, buying out the gentry's holdings in order to put pressure on the monarchy 31/244 - and the gentry are already suffering from increased taxation and decreased revenue. Given their vast size, the alliance can hardly act in secret, which in turn motivates them to move forward."
"Still, the abbey has been surprisingly stubborn, so the negotiations have run aground. Apparently within the alliance, the various trading companies are each frantically trying to be the first to complete a deal. So, well..."
"If you feel it's worthwhile to risk the danger of venturing into such a lair, Mr. Lawrence, I suppose I can introduce you to one of the hydra's heads, but..."
"On one condition: You never spoke with our company."
"If you please, then."
"This... mmph. Are you quite sure this is all right?"
"There hasn't been a guest in this inn for ten days, and it's been four weeks since any occupied this room, and during this season, guests are even fewer. A single ryut was enough to get us the room and firewood with change left over. Of course..."
"... It's rather doubtful whether we can buy anything with coins such as those."
"Hmph. So you took advantage of their weakness, did you?"
"That's not a very nice way to put it. When demand for something is low, its price will drop."
"Well, so long as you didn't get this room for the sake of your own vanity, 'tis well. Come, Col - take that there."
"That face of yours - I see you're planning something no good again."
"It's no good, that much is certain. I just found myself hoping the Church would endure forever."
"Ah, you mean the conversation from earlier."
"If it bothers you, I suppose I can transform back into a merchant happy to watch the ignominious fall of a once-strong enemy."
"... Fool."
"It's simple sentimentality. Despite my mixed feelings, the Church has come to my rescue many times."
"Mm. I suppose I can understand that. Still, that fellow with the trading company spoke of the situation with no small pleasure."
"He's surely quite pleased. Deutchmann said he was responsible for wool buying, didn't he? Dealing with the abbey must be quite a bother. No wonder he's happy to see them put at a disadvantage."
"Choleric and opportunistic, eh?"
"Exactly. But don't you think you've been a bit too pleased ever since the quilts were brought up?"
"'Twill be hard for me to sleep in such quilts. The scent of sheep will keep me awake."
"And the scent of money will keep them awake. And we'll probably have no cause to be involved with the abbey's crisis. Even with your wits, Col's wisdom, and my nerve, this is one opponent we can't face."
"What kind of notion is that?"
"What should we do, then?"
"I don't imagine that the Ruvik Alliance is after the wolf bones. Had that been the case, Eve or Kieman would've heard something about it."
"So we've just happened to run into them while chasing different prey."
"I don't know if 'run into them' is quite the right phrase, but... in any case, the Ruvik Alliance is a nation-sized opponent. We're no match for them. However, this could be a good opportunity, depending on how we think about it."
"Oh?"
"The abbey's been seized by jaws as persistent as any snake. The whole of their estate is in full view, which saves us the trouble of estimating it. Also, according to what Deutchmann said, the alliance is after the abbey's landholdings. Even if the abbey's holdings include the wolf bones, it's unlikely they're viewed as important."
"I don't think there would be any real danger in simply stopping by the abbey to see. If there were a danger, I suppose it would be..."
"What?"
"It's said that the great Brondel Abbey has flocks of sheep totaling a hundred thousand head. Can you manage that?"
"All will be well surely,"
"I need only eat so much mutton that the very scent of it drives me off. One may tire of even their favorite food, after all - or am I wrong?"
"..."
"So, it's decided then. Let's prepare! Eating so much it turns distasteful requires some preparation. And look, don't you think young Col wishes to eat mutton, as well? 'Tis written all over his face."
"I've started to find constantly treating you to such feasts itself distasteful. What do you make of that, eh?"
"I don't mind being resented once in a while. If you truly tired of me, though, that would be truly painful,"
"Indeed it would,"
"Come, hurry!"
"To think that my first customers in such a long time would have such great appetites! Surely this is the will of God!"
"Just look at this lifeless tavern! Hey, you lot! This is how you eat and drink, by God!"
"Ah, shut up, old man! You're the one who always skips the wine and drinks the watery ale they brew right over a dirt floor!"
"Aye! I hear you put so many beans on your bread it drives your wife to tears!"
"By the by, where'd you come from, traveler?"
"From Kerube across the sea. Before that we were still farther south."
"Kerube, eh? I hear there was quite the hubbub there. What was it again...? Hey, Hans! What happened in Kerube, again?"
"The narwhal, wasn't it? Hey, aren't tavern keepers supposed to be good with gossip? Anyway, I hear they caught a big devil in their nets, turned into a real problem. Last time I was at the docks, the boys from the Lyon Company were talking about it."
"That's right, the narwhal. Was that really true?"
"Yes, it was true. It was such a crisis that the town was split in two over it, north and south. In the end, a single company brought several crates of gold coins to the church and loudly demanded the narwhal be sold to them. Thanks to all the commotion, it was impossible to enjoy any time in the town."
"Oh ho, crates full of gold coin, eh?"
"And you say you came all the way up here from south of Kerube? For trade?"
"No, we're on pilgrimage to Brondel Abbey."
"Ah, Brondel Abbey..."
"Difficult though it may be to believe, my two traveling companions are indeed children of God. I've been moved to repent and try to atone for my past sins."
"I see. Still, to think a merchant would be making a pilgrimage to Brondel Abbey... such irony,"
"Why is that ironic?"
"Well, only because Brondel Abbey is cleverer with business than you might think and hasn't treated pilgrims properly in many years. Most foreign travelers to the abbey come through this town, and we've seen many of them returning with disappointed faces."
"They're supposed to pay for the upkeep of inns and roads for pilgrims, but the amount they contribute is piddling compared with the money they bring in from the wool trade. Even a child can see which way the scales tilt. May God's protection be upon us!"
"It's thanks to their actions that we're suffering God's punishment! These last few years, wool sales in Winfiel have somehow dropped, and it's Brondel Abbey that's suffered the most. Even merchants more meek than any sheep have stopped coming to them, and even if they 41/244 start begging for tithes now, all those pilgrims they drove away aren't coming back."
"And if after all that a foreign merchant is coming as a pilgrim, maybe this is the limit of their punishment. Serves them right, I say!"
"So that's how it is... So does that mean nobody visits the abbey at all anymore?"
"Not at all. Even now, merchants gather there. Though they are of a rather different kind. Have you ever heard of the Ruvik Alliance?"
"That's the largest and most famous economic alliance in the world, is it not?"
"Indeed it is. Evidently their people are visiting the abbey in great numbers. At first it was their leaders, riding in black carriages, but apparently the abbey winter was too much for them to endure, and merchants coming on foot replaced them. I hear they come and go constantly, each trying to be the first to strike a deal. This year they've passed right by all the taverns, grim-faced as they go."
"What kind of deal are they trying to make?"
"Don't laugh now, but I hear they're trying to buy the golden sheep."
"The story comes up whenever times are hard. The fields of Brondel Abbey are vast, and when they're covered in snow, the whiteness extends as far as you can see. Legend has it that at the very edge there's a sheep as brilliantly golden as the newly risen sun."
"The story goes that a man once managed to pluck a bit of wool from it, but that the moment the wool was plucked it turned into pure light and vanished."
"They're probably trying to buy the abbey's name, or its land..."
"I heard a rumor the Ruvik Alliance is trying to become Winfiel's new nobility."
"But King Sufon's the grandson of the great Winfiel the First. He won't just stand by and allow his own retainers to be bought off. There once was a merchant who bought himself the name of a fallen noble family, and the king's anger was such that his decrees ruined the merchant's wool trade - and then this."
"There's no money, but taxes keep going up, though I suppose it's because there is no money that his reaction is so excessive."
"You're good customers, so I'll tell you something. If you're going to the abbey, watch yourselves. Demons have taken up within the house of God. The God that should have been coming to our aid has been lost on the vast plains for long time now."
"Thank you. We'll be very careful."
"Aye. Other than that, you'd best eat and drink such that you've energy to spare. The moment you leave the town, it's naught but snowy fields. Without enough energy, you'll never make it across!"
"Snow, eh?"
"Suppose I'll have to go downstairs..."
"Goodness, you're up early."
"Good morning to you."
"My, but it's cold! Took some effort to break through the ice in the well. Looks like the lid's coming down starting today."
"The lid?"
"Oh, that's what we say around here when were covered in snow. Everything turns white in single day."
"I see."
"So, what shall I get you? I can make some breakfast for my guests, though it'll take some time."
"We're fine for breakfast. To be honest, we brought home quite a bit from the tavern last night."
"Ha-ha-ha! I suppose you've got to eat such good mutton while you've got the chance, eh?"
"Indeed. Ah, but if you could get us some water-"
"Yes, of course. Ah, I suppose the water in your metal pitcher would be solid as a rock. I'll bring a box of sawdust up later. Keep it in that and it'll resist the cold a little better."
"Ah, thank you."
"putting the lid on"
"Oh, you're awake-"
"'Tis snow,"
"Indeed,"
"..."
"What's wrong?"
"I see even you can manage some kindness after all,"
"You'll catch cold,"
"Were I in my true form, I could gaze at the snow for as long as I liked."
"No doubt you'd become covered in snow as you watched,"
"I told you snow was no great problem, did I not?"
"I wonder about that. You're hardly a weeping, frail maiden after all - you might well go dashing happily off over the snow at any moment."
"..."
"This is no wine."
"You fool,"
"So you're going to sleep, then? Breakfast is going to be rather magnificent today."
"Sho, wha' shall whe do nexsht?"
"Don't talk with your mouth full. Given that Deutchmann said he would introduce us to a trading company affiliated with the Ruvik Alliance, we'll simply wait for them to contact us."
"Mm... mmph."
"Are you planning to hibernate anytime soon?"
"That migh' no' be sush a ba' idea."
"But it's already so cold - it'll be hard to travel with the snow, won't it?"
"True. What did you do when you were traveling alone?"
"When I first left home, it was a good season for travel... and I decided to avoid traveling through places where it seemed like it would snow, since it suddenly got very cold once I crossed the Roam River."
"Indeed. In those clothes of yours, it'd be up to God's grace whether you woke up or not after getting snowed upon."
"Still, there's a certain amount of preparation done along routes that can expect snow. Signposts are erected at set intervals, and there are small way houses placed at distances where even in deep snow, a traveler could expect to reach them. The blizzards around Arohitostok are indeed terrible, but thanks to the weather there are no bandits, and 51/244 the bears and wolves stay holed up in their dens so travel was surprisingly easy."
"You've even been to Arohitostok? Isn't that the northernmost town of all?"
"Just once, to deliver the personal things of a traveler who passed away. It's northwest of even the Dolan Plains. I saw the land there as smooth and flat as a calm sea. It was an amazing sight."
"They say Saint Alagia spent thirty years as an ascetic there... If that's true, then he's a saint, no mistaking it."
"Wow..."
"In school, I learned the names of towns all over the world, but I've been to so few of them myself..."
"That's true of people everywhere. I've only rarely joined caravans or traveled fixed trade routes - that's why I've traveled so far and seen so much."
"Have you been to any towns in the south?"
"I expect you're more familiar with the south than I am. I've gone east, as well-"
"Coming!"
"Who is it, please?"
"Is this the room of Mr. Kraft Lawrence?"
"That's right. I am Lawrence."
"Oh, well then! I apologize for my appearance. I received word from Mr. Deutchmann, you see-"
"Not at all, not at all. We're the ones who should've paid a visit to you. In any case, please do come in."
"If you'll excuse the intrusion, then."
"What a lovely room."
"Normally we cannot afford such niceties."
"Ha-ha-ha, benefits of the job, eh? I enjoyed the same thing myself when I came at the beginning of autumn."
"Ah, I've forgotten to introduce myself. I am Lag Piasky of the Fias Company, affiliated with the Ruvik Alliance."
"And I am Kraft Lawrence of the Rowen Trade Guild. Normally I'm a traveling merchant on the continent."
"Ah, this is surely God's will - as you can see, I, too, am a traveling merchant."
"What I've heard from Mr. Deutchmann is that you wish to visit Brondel Abbey."
"Yes - if possible, we'd like to visit the merchant house that's closer to the main building rather than the pilgrimage house."
"... As you were introduced by Mr. Deutchmann, I won't inquire as to your goal, but given what you've said, I assume you're not here to 54/244 purchase wool."
"Still, I do a bit of business guiding to the annex those interested in watching our skirmishing with the abbey, so I won't press you. Besides, whenever people gather, that's draw enough to bring still more people in."
"The banner of the moon and shield will always fly in the wind, so I won't worry about such minor details, eh?"
"Thank you very much. I'll make sure your consideration is a good one."
"Now, then, as I am a rather impatient person, I'd like to discuss our departure. May I assume both your companions will be coming along as well?"
"Yes. Will that make us unable to use the pretense of wool buying?"
"Hardly. It's not uncommon to bring a member of the clergy along on a business venture for the sake of one's spiritual tranquility, after all. And things at the merchant branch of the abbey are quite lively at the moment, so it's unlikely your companions will be noticed, no matter who they are. So long as we can pass through the gates, we'll have no troubles."
"I see, good."
"So, about our departure..."
"We can leave any time."
"I see... actually, as I function as the agent between the abbey and a mainland trade house, I estimate that there's some value in setting out as quickly as may be possible."
"Since this is all at our behest, we're happy to leave immediately."
"I appreciate that. I'd like to try to embark around the midday bell."
"And will we travel on foot?"
"No, by horse. Though the snow is yet thin here, toward the abbey it's gotten rather deep. I'll make arrangements for the horses myself, but please bring your own rations. Oh, and also-"
"-There's no need to change your coin into the local stuff."
New Convo:

"Hmph... awfully arrogant for a mere horse."
"Are you all prepared?"
"Now, then, let us pray to God for safe travels."
"nation of plains,"
"Col."
"If you smile, you'll feel better."
"Now, then, let us go get dinner. I expect Piasky has arranged to have it served."
"All right,"
"I'm sure you know this, but you won't be able to sleep like that. You'll feel better if you go someplace warm and drink some wine."
"I know, I know."
"I hear the liquor here is such that a simple spark will set it aflame,"
"Truly?"
"Weak liquor soon freezes and becomes undrinkable, so they make it strong enough to store in ice and remain unfrozen. And though it's colder than ice, drinking the burning stuff will warm you right up."
"Still, we may only have pickled cabbage to go with it,"
"'Tis better than nothing."
"That's the spirit."
"Since I travel quite a lot in the northlands, I often wind up having to stop over because of the snow. Helping out with the cooking has gotten me not half bad at it,"
"simple"
"In places where there are no rivers or ponds, the water you carry with you tends to turn rancid, but if you mix it with ingredients like these and boil the lot of it, even bad water is all right."
"It would be amazing if you could make stew this delicious from even rancid water... But this is only practical when you're traveling in numbers, I would think. If you made this all the time while traveling alone, it would surely be a waste of money."
"Right you are. When I was younger and traveling hither and yon with caravans, I often had cooking duties foisted upon me."
"Of course, that's all in the past. A group of merchants is after all only a group. It's not a family."
"Whenever a crisis comes, they'll only offer you a helping hand if they've decided there's some profit in it for them."
"Quite right,"
"Also, I was well aware that even a group of traveling merchants have no hope against the merchants of a town. So in the end I decided to become the hand of one of those town merchants. I'm less free than I was, but in every town where we have influence, I'm greeted with smiles. It's worthy compensation."
"On that count, if you're with the Ruvik Alliance, the compensation would be great indeed."
"Exactly so. And the scale of my business has expanded as well."
"I see. Though it doesn't seem to have dulled your cooking skills a bit... ah, apologies. Your life as a traveler doesn't match your great skill at cooking."
"Ha-ha-ha. I hear that a lot. The truth is I still prepare meals for groups of people while traveling. As I'm doing right now, in fact."
"Heh-heh. Every merchant worth his salt ends up asking me that question, Mr. Lawrence. And I always answer the same way."
"My journey's only just begun! I still have plenty of time to think."
"Incidentally, it's not as though I'm always going to Brondel Abbey."
"Well, I can't have you up all night trying to work out the answer. I'll be happy to give it to you whenever you like."
"Besides, thinking it over will only empty your stomach, and finding the answer won't fill it back up again."
"Would that Brondel Abbey were at the edge of the world."
"Even I don't have that many riddles."
"Oh, you're awake."
"I am not,"
"What? You don't see the answer?"
"So that's how it is."
"You're exactly right."
"You fool!"
"Your strange manner made me want to know the answer that much more. And to think..."
"So you went and asked?"
"Aye. I went and told him it had kept me up and got laughed at for my trouble. Me - Holo the Wisewolf!"
"I learned at school that there are things you can't learn without asking. But what was the answer?"
"It's too much trouble to explain. You do it,"
"A man like Piasky, who's used to traveling alone but also skilled at cooking meals for many people, is quite rare. He must be involved in establishing new towns or marketplaces. When he talked about 69/244 guiding large groups of people, those people are probably on their way to start new lives in a new place."
"Ooh..."
"Essentially, the people he's guiding aren't used to traveling. So without the ability to fully equip them all, as well as quickly solve whatever problems arise, he wouldn't be able to do his job."
"In truth, I've led a pack myself, and he looks to be a fine, reliable male. He speaks his mind and speaks it cleverly."
"So he does a rather uncommon job, then. But then..."
"Piasky's job is helping colonists. If he's being helped by a king or the nobility, it's to increase the land they control. If he's backed by the Church, it's to spread their faith. In any case, there are many reasons, but they all have one thing in common. If the colonists arrive at their 70/244 new land and manage to become established there, it will become their new homeland."
"Ah..."
"The work is difficult but profitable, and if successful will earn the gratitude of many people. I've even heard of such leaders becoming minor nobility themselves, at the request of the villagers or townspeople they aided. But many of those who set out for new lands have lost their homes to war, famine, or disease. So-"
"-That's why I was hoping you'd forget the matter."
"Hmph."
"'Tis not our way to find a new homeland. Our home is our home. What's important is not who's there, but where the land itself is. And anyway, I'll bet you were just worried I'd say something like this, aye?"
"Could you please find a homeland for me, as well?"
"Males are such fools!"
"... I cannot argue with that."
"Honestly,"
"I grow weary from anger. To bed with me."
"You should drop a copper coin and see what happens,"
"It's quite possible there's nothing that can't be bought here,"
"Now, then, if you'll wait here, I'll make arrangements for your room."
"I shall leave it to you."
"Still, this place is rather large, is it not? From what you were saying, I thought 'twould be smaller and at more of a remove."
"I only knew it by reputation. But I know it's the place where it's said enough wool to fill the straits of Winfiel is traded. Look there - they even have glass windows."
"Mm. 'Tis quite a feat to build such things out here in the snow."
"There's something that I learned in school."
"Oh?"
"That clergy from the northlands are the best at questioning heretics."
"Still, that was long ago, was it not?"
"Certainly - we live in a time when even you can come on pilgrimage."
"... Still, I'm a bit worried,"
"Ah, sorry, I should've explained better. I wasn't talking about you."
"I'm a bit worried that there are too many people here."
"Er, do you mean..."
"There are too many people for grounds of this size. No matter how grand the buildings might be, a bunch of arrogant merchants and monks with no patience for cramped conditions will never be satisfied with such confined space."
"Do you mean to say there may be no lodging for us?"
"I'm very sorry. There are too many people, and I was unable to secure a room."
"You might be able to sleep alongside others in one of the larger rooms..."
"Alternatively, we might be able to find you an earthen-floor room to rent... but in weather like this, that wouldn't be terribly different from making camp. Ah, what a bother. Apparently over the last couple of days, there's been a surge of people."
"What about stables?"
"They're full all the way to the haylofts. In this time of year, they're even warmer than the inn rooms, after all. And I don't even have to mention the wool storehouses."
"Ho, the White Army returns!"
"'Tis all too clear what you're thinking about."
"Fate is truly a force in the world. The world is too complicated for all to come easily."
"... You're right about that."
"Scriveners' rooms... no, no... perhaps the storage room at the far end of the hall... or - hmm?"
"That's it. There might be some vacancies in the shepherds' quarters. I've heard they're less busy in the winter - just let me go ask and see."
"One of those had his eye on us just now."
"I wondered."
"Well, perhaps he simply found you a bit unusual. There are plenty of abbeys with both nuns and monks, but there aren't any nuns here."
"Aye... he was indeed surprised."
"I assume you didn't show your ears or tail,"
"'Tis not as though there's aught here to make my heart race. My ears and tail are lifeless beneath my robe."
"That's good. I prefer a modest girl."
"Will you be all right staying in the shepherds' quarters?"
"You said you preferred a modest girl, didn't you?"
"Well, then, I'd say that's our best choice,"
"Huskins."
"Kraft Lawrence."
"..."
"This is Holo. And that's Col. Strange circumstances have led to them traveling with me."
"Pleased to meet you,"
"And I'm very pleased to meet you, as well,"
"Thank you so much for this. You've truly helped us."
"I'll tend the fire. Aside from that, you're free to do as you will."
"Is he a Church scholar?"
"He does seem like a sort of wilderness wise man, doesn't he?"
"Am I the butt of that joke?"
"We've more leftovers than I thought. With this much, it should last us a while, even counting for Huskins's portion. And if we run low, we're surrounded by merchants, so it'll hardly be a problem."
"Yes, only the well was very crowded, so water might be a problem."
"Should we go draw some now maybe?"
"Perhaps... yes, go ahead and do that. We'll need it at dinner, and it's possible the well will freeze during the night."
"Right!"
"It wasn't long ago that I would've greeted the sight of you there with sarcasm and gotten your rage in return,"
"... Seems you've managed to learn something, then."
"Even I learn eventually."
"Heh. Still, if we resort to staying here long enough, our food supplies become a concern. That will be a bit of a bother."
"Mm, yes, true. And if the snow piles up too much, we could well end up trapped in here. I agree with you that if we're to be trapped, I'd rather have it be in a town."
"There's that, but I've another reason."
"Another?"
"Aye. You might well find yourself buried alive under the wool left behind by the sheep I'd devour."
"That's an eventuality I'm keen to avoid."
"Yet with that lot outside stuck here as well, they'll have naught to do but trade rumors. As we're seeking information, that could be rather convenient for us."
"That's a double-edged sword. Rumors spread in the blink of an eye in a place like this. We need to find out about the wolf bones while drawing as little attention as possible, that's the problem."
"'Twill be well. Just as a pack with two heads will often quarrel among itself, so too will its two leaders not become terribly close friends. 'Tis nothing to worry over."
"After all we've been through, I'm not particularly concerned with whom you choose to be friends with,"
"Oh? Aren't you the leader of this pack?"
"You were keeping your guard up even as you got along with that other male, aye? Well, I suppose it's common for the new leader of a 83/244 pack to try a bit too hard. I surely don't fail to understand your concerns..."
"I thought as much, but - so 'tis true, then, that you were worried about such a thing? Not only do you count me the pack's leader, but you're hoping I won't give my favor to another?"
"Such an adorable pup."
"Hmph, look at you, playing at being such a reasonable male."
"It's easy enough to do if I just think back to my childhood."
"Oh, aye?"
"When trying to attract the attention of the one you care for, what's the most charming method?"
"Why it's to harass her a little bit and make her notice you."
"There's no accounting for taste."
"I-I'll take that as a compliment."
"Hmph."
"The blessings of God be upon you,"
"Now, then, shall we?"
"Brondel Abbey... the house of our almighty God..."
"In truth, I would've liked to be able to invite you and your companions along as well, Mr. Lawrence..."
"Not at all. I understand entirely. Though if this were a business negotiation, I'd have a seat at the table even if I had to invite myself."
"Ha-ha-ha, I appreciate your saying so. I'll see you tomorrow, though."
"Indeed. Enjoy your wining!"
"I'll just bet he'll have good wining, I will,"
"The wine in our wineskins is good enough,"
"Aye, but good wining means good food and good company as well."
"Just what are you getting at...?"
"Look, you - don't say anything like that at dinner, understand?"
"Just how is one meant to enjoy their drink around one so scruffy and gloomy? Not only would he not give me a proper greeting, just when I wondered where he'd gone, he returned with a basket full of 87/244 raw mutton. Just what is he thinking, drying it above the hearth like that? Is he making sport of me?"
"If it's jerky you want, there should still be some in the bag."
"That tough stuff suits my taste not,"
"If we do as Piasky did and put it in stew, it'll turn nice and tender,"
"Why don't you just use the stew-pot for a pillow from now on, hmm?"
"Are you saying it'll soften my head?"
"We've returned."
"It's a magnificent sanctuary you have here."
"... A fitting place for God to live."
"Dinner's on."
"Thanks be to God for this meal."
"... It's nice, eating with a group for once."
"There's a taste I've not had in some time."
"So, Mr. Huskins..."
"... You've been here long, have you?"
"... A few dozen years now. Since the time of the abbot before last."
"I see. I've been traveling since I was a boy, doing business all the while. I can barely imagine what it must be like to have spent so much time in one place."
"Incidentally, I've heard there are three things that never change in the Winfiel kingdom. What about you, Mr. Huskins - would you say that's true?"
"... The arrogant nobles, the beautiful plains..."
"And the flocks of sheep!"
"... It doesn't change much, this land."
"It sounds lovely."
"... You think so?"
"I use the same words any time I return somewhere after a year of travel and business."
"Things never change."
"..."
"This place doesn't change, either. Reckon it'll stay that way, too."
"No doubt. This is Brondel Abbey after all."
"Thought not even a stone wall can resist the changes of the passing days,"
"... You mean those merchants? Are you lot any different?"
"I am indeed a merchant, but my aim is a bit different from the others flocking here."
"... Oh ho. Coming all the way out here and bringing God's little lambs with you..."
"I'm here on pilgrimage to inquire about a holy relic here at the abbey."
"... There are many reasons to travel. Such brings color to a drab world."
"I surely am handy to have about."
"... Where's Col?"
"I know not... He tended the hearth for a while, but once the sun rose he went off with the shepherds and their staves."
"So it's sunny outside, eh...?"
"Aye. Just a moment ago the dogs were scampering about. And it seems as though a certain someone seems to be thinking me one of them."
"Better than drinking wine first thing in the morning. Come, move aside. I've got to go out and see what's afoot."
"... Whew. Still, what a sight."
"'Tis cold."
"It might not be the same as when you looked out over the ocean, but the view does make me want to run about a bit. Look, even Col is over there playing with the sheepdogs."
"ah."
"He'll return soon enough, with lips white from cold. You can tease him all you like then."
"..."
"Want to come along?"
"Enjoy your rest,"
"Assaj vermilion, arol woad, vud oak, rocatta saffron."
"Rocatta saffron is fine indeed. I hear the Duke of Milone donned magnificent yellow robes at a banquet recently."
"You mean the banquet that terrified even the Bishop of Mirah? Thanks to that, one of the noblemen who's a regular of mine went on an ordering tear, and I wound up turning a serious profit."
"Oh? Must be nice. If you're looking for spices, I'll have some coming in on the next boat. What do you say? They're from all over..."
"You needn't knock,"
"Excuse me - does Mr. Piasky happen to be in?"
"Hmm... Piasky? Oh, you mean Lag. He's in the back, writing - that fellow there."
"My thanks."
"Good morning, Mr. Lawrence. Did you sleep well last night?"
"I did, thank you. Though I doubt I will enjoy the same experience tonight."
"Oh? Why is that?"
"I believe this is the first time I've seen a traveling merchant wearing spectacles. I'm so jealous I may lose sleep over it."
"Oh, these? Ha-ha-ha! Well, we're in an abbey, the home of writing, after all. You can find cast-off spectacles quite easily here. These don't belong to me, naturally."
"So, what news, then? Oh, do please sit down."
"A single merchant can keep a list of goods to trade in his head, but when you join an organization, you need proof of your orders."
"So figures over memories. Still, in a company like that, your name won't just be recorded in the Church's burial register - you'll live on in the memories of your comrades."
"Quite so, quite so, God willing."
"You'll have to excuse my writing. I assume you're here to inquire about our merry progress?"
"... Is it all right to be talking about it so openly?"
"Ha-ha-ha, yes, it's fine. I know everyone here. Outsiders are always carefully observed."
"Indeed, Deutchmann's trust in you bought you a ticket in here, so worry not. For my part, in return for furnishing you information, I'm tempted to ask how exactly you earned that trust... but I suppose that's a trade secret."
"Unfortunately, yes."
"I quite understand. So, about the circumstances here, it feels as though we're grinding our teeth before the walls of a fortress that should fall soon. But our jaw is getting tired, so we're taking a bit of a break."
"... They've been able to endure, despite all being pressed by such numbers?"
"We've tried to engage in standard negotiations any number of times. But never to any avail, so now I hear we're trying to reach the head abbot, assistant head abbot, another head abbot of a sister abbey who was once powerful here, and even going all the way down to the head archivist, trying to win someone, anyone over. With this many merchants, surely one of them knows someone who's close to one of 99/244 them. And yet they've flatly rejected everything. The head abbot must be in a terrible position, and yet... it's rather impressive."
"So... Mr. Lawrence, just what is it you've come to ask me?"
"Actually, it's a bit embarrassing to say out in the open like this."
"Most of the talk being exchanged here in these abbey grounds is too embarrassing to be heard. Please, speak your mind."
"You truly think so?"
"Quite. I'm also personally rather interested. I don't have the sense you've come just to witness this sad state of affairs. I'd assume you're here to meet someone, but then you sought out me, not a monk. I'm a merchant, and so I can't help being as curious as a cat. When the curtain stirs, I want to peek behind it."
"I was hoping we'd be able to view the holy relics."
"Apologies. Ah... excuse me. I suppose I still have much to learn. I surely didn't expect that to be your answer."
"Do you not doubt me?"
"Please don't tease me. This is a branch of the great Brondel Abbey. If I were to be more surprised at the notion of you coming to view holy relics than I would be at you coming for profit, I'd only invite the anger of God."
"I truly imagined you'd come for another reason."
"Other reason?"
"Yes. Ah, but now I understand. It makes sense. You don't let your guard down easily, Mr. Lawrence. For you to have gone to the trouble of visiting Mr. Deutchmann first before coming here, your aim is having a look at the asset records we completed?"
"Given how famous the abbey is, it seemed likely to have many holy relics. Naturally we haven't recorded them all, but... what sort of thing are you searching for? I may be able to help you."
"Something connected to the golden sheep."
"The golden sheep..."
"As far as relics passed down from saints go, I know something about several such items, but if it's the golden sheep..."
"So, it's nonsense, you're saying."
"Well, I couldn't be so certain,"
"The tale of the golden sheep's circulated through the abbey for centuries. Or in other words..."
"... That shows that in all those centuries, it's never been found."
"More or less, yes,"
"Truthfully, before I came here, I was told by many people it was a foolish notion. But it seems people like me aren't the only ones who get the notion to chase after their dreams - those who spend their days staring at ledgers sometimes feel likewise. Which is how I came to be introduced to Mr. Deutchmann."
"... Meaning?"
"The person who introduced me to Mr. Deutchmann must have seen what I was chasing and thought it interesting. He couldn't very well chase such a tale himself, so he sent me on in his place. The more established one is, the more generous one can be to eccentrics."
"So that's how it is,"
"Ah, you're thinking you've learned another way to ingratiate yourself to the rich."
"No, in my case, I'm quite serious."
"So this is why I'd like to learn as much as possible about the golden sheep. Is there anyone in the area who would know more?"
"Well, you're in a fine state,"
"So, how much were you able to learn?"
"Surely you can tell whether or not I enjoyed my wine... can't you?"
"Aye. If you'd claimed to enjoy your drinking, I'd have bitten your ears off."
"Had I known it would end this way, I would've brought you along... sadly, my lady the wisewolf had already taken to her drink."
"Anything else you'd like to say, hmm?"
"Just let me sleep."
"Fool. Still, unlike you, I'm one who knows how to show her gratitude."
"Ow-"
"You're awake, are you?"
"... I think so."
"Dinner's still hot. Will you take some?"
"... Water."
"Where's Col?"
"At the moment, he's hearing a lecture from that shepherd on how to deal with snow. Our lad Col is quite the listener."
"I suppose I'll have to ask someone to teach me the rules that apply when you're angry with me."
"Someone other than me?"
"You when you're not angry. You're a different person when you lose your temper."
"Mm. This is only a temporary form, after all,"
"So, what of your results?"
"I heard nothing that will lead us to the truth."
"... So?"
"As long as it's not a private operation, there will definitely be records of purchases and assets. If what we're looking for is here, there ought to be traces of it."
"Hmm..."
"Did you think your misdirection would work on me?"
"I admit it. Until we can prove the bones don't exist, I could simply pretend to be searching for them."
"I'm sorry... for making you endure this."
"As a mere traveling merchant, all I can do is try to gather information in this roundabout manner. But you could-"
"..."
"You learned as much from Kerube, didn't you? If I thought to try to forcibly take something as valuable as a holy relic, that's how it would turn out. It would be bad for me, but it would be just as bad for you."
"You said it yourself back in Kerube. Your claws and fangs could set things right in an instant."
"I can..."
"If you wish to go far away, I can take you there on my back. If you desire something, I can hunt it down for you and bring it to you. If enemies attack you, I'll drive them away, and if there's something you wish to protect, I can come to your aid. But..."
"The only time I can do anything for you is when you're in your human form."
"I'm sorry. Just be patient a little longer, will you?"
"... Mm."
"Don't apologize. If you do, all my effort will have been for nothing."
"If we find they are indeed the bones of my pack mate, my patience may well be at an end."
"And that is fine. I'll have an important job once you've bared your fangs and run off."
"You're certainly a confident one."
"As you're so fond of saying, I'm a foolish male."
"Heh. If we speak like this too long, we may be suspected of mischief."
"I'll bet dinner is still warm."
"I could use a drink."
"Aye, and help yourself,"
New Convo:

"Good morning,"
"It's cold again today, isn't it?"
"If it were truly cold, it would be nigh impossible to get out of bed."
"Then I suppose it's just cold enough to manage."
"Is Holo still sleeping, then?"
"She was curled up into a ball, so I don't think she'll wake for a time."
"Once the morning church bells ring, we'll go visit the alliance's inn."
"Er... shall I wake up Miss Holo, then?"
"No, no need. If she isn't already up by then, we'll leave her be."
"... Might she not be angry?"
"She won't. If she turns truly serious about wanting to discover whether or not the bones are there, she'll find out right away."
"Huh? Er... you mean..."
"She must trust us. We'll have to do our very best."
"Uh - er?"
"Nothing,"
"I was just wondering if I was that clever when I was your age."
"Er... no, I didn't mean..."
"Or maybe I'm just a fool?"
"Ah, well, I've already shown you how pathetic I can be, so it's too late to worry about that."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"Hmm?"
"I'm not at all confident that I'll ever be able to be like you, Mr. Lawrence."
"That'd be a problem if you were my apprentice."
"But when traveling, there's no use in having two of the same kind of person. When you complement one another, though - that's the best sort of traveling companion to have."
"I'll do my best!"
"I'm counting on it,"
"The first thing is to get a look at the list of holy relics. If it's been accidentally listed there, then we'll be in luck."
"So I'll play a student on pilgrimage, then?"
"And if anyone asks, tell them of your interest in church management. Did you learn anything about that at school?"
"We weren't taught anything about money."
"I see. Perfect, then."
"I haven't learned a thing, so if you could teach me, sir-"
"An excellent performance."
"I hope we can find what we're looking for on the lists."
"That's your job,"
"Huh?!"
"Your knowledge of the Church is far greater than mine. The patron saints of the shepherds, the saints that were once pagan gods, the strange superstitions that surround wolves and sheep. Only you can tell them from one another."
"... Understood."
"I'm counting on you."
"Hmm? Oh, welcome. It was a fine time we had last night."
"Good morning. I just wanted to find Piasky and thank him for last night's feast."
"If you're looking for Lag, he's in the sanctuary. Part of a regular negotiation. He's quite a merchant for one so young."
"The sanctuary, you say? Thank you very much."
"Sure. Let's drink again sometime. Bring your master along this time, eh?"
"master"
"Shouldn't they be holding a prayer service at the sanctuary now?"
"I doubt the abbey is able to refuse. Their position seems weaker than I'd have guessed."
"Good morning, Mr. Lawrence. Are you recovered from last night?"
"My companion's something of a drinker, so I got quite an earful."
"Ha-ha. Well, bring her along next time, eh?"
"Mr. Piasky, do you have a moment?"
"A bit, yes."
"My thanks. Where shall we go?"
"I've work to do, so perhaps the library?"
"The library?"
"Ah, apologies. It's that building there. There's a theology scholar who acts as a sort of clerk on the first floor. Just give him my name."
"I have to make a report, so if you'll give me a bit of time..."
"Understood. I'll see you at the library."
"I daresay I'll come along, as well,"
"My apologies for interrupting you while you're so busy."
"Not at all. My comrades were so rude last night, after all - not that this is an apology."
"Not at all. I learned all sorts of useful things, so I should be thanking you. Of course-"
"that does make it harder for me to ask another favor of you."
"Ha-ha-ha. Well, if it's a difficult favor, I may have to ask for some compensation. What could it be, I wonder? If it's something I can easily arrange, just name it."
"Honestly, it's what you were speaking of last night. I was hoping you could arrange for me to have a look at the list of holy relics within Brondel Abbey."
"Oh, that? I was sure it would be something else. Well, I wasn't lying, here - look,"
"I thought you might want to have a look at it, so I made it ready for you."
"My deepest thanks to you. If someone like me were to knock upon the doors of the abbey myself, I'm quite sure I'd be turned away at once."
"Not at all. I'm sure you've guessed as much, given how easily I handed it over to you, but there's nothing of use there. Nearly everything written on it is worthless. You'll smile to see it, I'm sure,"
"I expect most of them were bought as part of bribes. They were bought from noblemen or royalty, despite being obvious fakes, as a way to give money without losing reputation. The noose Saint Emela used to hang herself when she was martyred is a perfect example. If you tied together all the ropes supposed to be her noose, they say it would be too long to stop her feet from touching the ground, even if she'd found the highest tree in the world."
"But you may not find what you seek there, Mr. Lawrence. The golden sheep is a thing of legend, and it hasn't left so much as a single concrete artifact behind. As far as tales go, there's the story of the soldier who tried to pluck a piece of its golden wool, but..."
"No, chasing what we're after is like trying to catch a cloud, so it's nothing like that. But while a cloud might be impossible to grasp, its presence in the sky is still a fact. Essentially-"
"-You're looking for the evidence."
"Precisely. If there's a patron saint revered by shepherds or something connected to them, it might serve as proof that the abbey is aware of the golden sheep. Thus, the golden sheep could be supposed to exist."
"Still, as you said, there seems to be little of interest here."
"I'm sorry it wasn't any use to you... though I suppose it's strange for me to be apologizing."
"We looked over that list countless times,"
"You can find the items on it all over the land. A few of them could be sold off straightaway for a good price, but... to be honest, I have my own reason for showing you the list."
"You do?"
"Yes. I was wondering if there's something there that hides a deeper purpose."
"Just earlier I was in the sanctuary, conducting standard negotiation. The abbey's solidarity was admirable as always - even as their finances are tight, and they beg the royal merchants for funds to conduct the spring thanksgiving festival."
"Their finances are that poor?"
"Daily living expenses, building upkeep, candles for prayer, parchments for manuscript copying, paper, book purchases, shepherds' pay, livestock feed over the winter... and those are just the basics. On top of that, since they're an important abbey, there's the exorbitant cost of the bishops' meetings they must host every few years, the costs of welcoming important guests, the maintenance of their sister abbey, and the huge tribute they owe the pope in the south. What's more, the king views them as a convenient source of coin in exchange for overlooking their possession of such power and influence. Given all this, their fall cannot be far off."
"They've amassed a huge fortune thanks to their wool sales, so they've plenty of men able to figure profit and loss. And I'm sure there are some among them who would like to reach a realistic compromise. But still, the council remains united in its rejection of the alliance's requests."
"And you believe that solidarity is because of some peculiar conviction?"
"Heavy investment in a holy relic would fit the circumstances. The devout among them would accept it, and if it could be turned to profit, it would be the perfect support during this difficult time. So if we can 124/244 simply find what they're clinging to and take it from them, I believe they will crumble."
"I believe it's a good idea... and the idea that with so many fakes in the world no one would possibly put their faith in a relic would serve as good cover."
"Indeed... you're quite right."
"To tell the truth, after your visit last night, Mr. Lawrence, I was so excited I could hardly sleep."
"We looked over that list countless times"
"Any clues that would break this deadlock would be more precious than any gospel to us. I can't describe to you the sense of futility I felt after checking over that parchment again and again. And yet I thought 125/244 perhaps... perhaps you or your companions might be able to help. Hence my ulterior motive in showing it to you."
"I'm sorry we couldn't be of any use."
"This is a rather boorish question, but..."
"Yes?"
"If the alliance is really able to buy the abbey's land, will it be so profitable?"
"I myself can't imagine the exact number of coins. But one thing I can say, it would profit many, many people."
"Many people?"
"Indeed. I assume you are aware of the general idea of what we're trying to do here, yes?"
"You're trying to purchase the stricken abbey's landholdings, then use that to bring around the nobility, allowing you to participate in kingdom politics."
"Exactly so. However, if we simply handed the purchased land over to the nobility, they'd just squander it - on daily extravagances or on lavish donations to churches or abbeys, either for appearances or out of a sense of piety. Or in the long run, it would simply be divided into smaller and smaller pieces over the generations until they fell into ruin. Neither they nor we profit that way. So to avoid that, people like me have been summoned."
"We plan to take ownership of the abbey, buying up its unused lands and allowing people to immigrate there. We're going to make villages and towns."
"Since the abbey's left the land fallow, most of the landed gentry haven't been able to bring in adequate earnings or even provide farmers with enough land to live on. On the mainland, war, famine, or floods have driven countless people from their homes. With no work or money, they have no choice but to either beg or steal. The more such people there are, the greater the threat to stability."
"So your alliance is going to lead such people to a new land, giving them a place to live and work, while at the same time putting in your debt the landlords whose holdings are plagued with vagrants."
"Yes. It will improve the situation for both sides. And it's not simply about money. It may sound arrogant of me to say so, but when you've experienced giving a new home to someone who's lost theirs..."
"... You can't stop. It's enough to make you pore over a parchment, looking for the tiniest hint or clue."
"Some immigrants were scattered from their homes when pirates razed their village. Stolen from their families, they thought they would never see their loved ones again - but upon hearing of the immigration, they journey to the new village and are reunited. That's why I cannot stop. Such things do happen."
"Because it involves so many people, there's naturally profit to be had. Anybody affiliated with the alliance is treated well when they arrive in towns the alliance founded. But it's not just that. Anyone who's traveled about doing business is especially sensitive to the word homeland. There's a sentimental reason we've fixed so stubbornly upon the abbey. If it were just for ourselves, we could hardly persevere so mightily. It's because we wish to help others."
"Ha-ha - I've bored you with my blathering."
"Not at all,"
"Not at all. I understand. I'm the same way."
"If you don't mind my asking, might I inquire as to your homeland?"
"They're both from the north. On the mainland. From different places, though."
"And you're after the treasures of your home, then?"
"Essentially, yes. They're searching for traces of their homelands, and I need their knowledge. It's something of a miracle that I encountered them at all."
"I see... So, you found a patron to fund your investigation, and the two of them found a guide. Fate certainly is a mysterious thing."
"Though it's hard to know whether I should thank the heavens for it or not."
"My apologies. Still... if that's the case, I won't hesitate to help you. Please, feel free to ask anything of me."
"Showing us what you have is already more than enough. My thanks to you."
"I hope you find what you're looking for,"
"You'll have to excuse me. It seems I'm being called."
"You've been a great help to us."
"Not at all. This is the least I can do, and I'll happily do it again."
"We'll be going, then."
"What's wrong?"
"You go on ahead. I wish to walk a while."
"Just mind you don't catch cold. Taking ill here comes with plenty of prayer."
"Fool."
"Should I have gone after her?"
"I don't know what would be best. But I think Miss Holo would have been happy."
"Even though my own homeland still exists?"
"Sometimes God seems fit to comfort us, though he lives in the heavens free of aging or sickness."
"I'm sorry. If there's one thing I know all too well, it's my own lack of courage. I'm afraid that if I go to her side, I'll be rejected."
"I doubt that."
"But it's not as though I think so little of her. I don't think she's sad or lonely so much as I imagine her heart's been disturbed a bit. She's only ever wondered whether her homeland still exists or not - the idea of making a new one has never occurred to her. So I want to believe she's uncertain how to manage the feelings she's having now."
"I can hardly be involved in all of Holo's affairs, nor can I hope to solve all the problems she faces. The only thing I can do is dedicate myself to doing for her what I can."
"I'm sure you and she noticed the mention of the wolf bones."
"... You mean the clue Mr. Piasky is searching for? "Yes. Just as we saw in Kerube, all holy relics are highly valued, and depending on how they're used, they can help support a faith - like trying to catch the golden sheep, thinking it was sent by God. You could say that's exactly the sort of thing Piasky's looking for."
"Mr. Lawrence, why... Back then, why didn't you...?"
"Because this information would be enough for them to make an important decision on. It's quite obvious how much we could have distanced ourselves from them, in that moment - and the alliance, too, hardly wishes to base its actions on hearsay from people it knows nothing about. Once they'd gotten assurances from me, I could end up being forced to take responsibility for any failure or bearing the brunt of the attack in case it came to a head-on confrontation with the abbey."
"So you're saying you wouldn't have been able to stay uninvolved?"
"Yes. Their power is too great. If we tell them what we know, and they consider it worthy, it would overturn not just the list of holy relics, but all the investigation they've done on the abbey's dealings and holdings. And if the bones truly do exist, then they'll surely find evidence of them soon. That's the sort of people we're dealing with. And here in the snowy plains, none will come to our aid."
"It's true that we could take the risk and escape on Holo's back if things turn dangerous, but if we're going to do that, Holo may as well have bared her fangs right from the start. But she would like to avoid 134/244 doing so as much as possible. In addition to her conscientiousness, she tends to worry."
"..."
"So as long as she wishes it, I'll continue to take risks. It's the least I can do."
"You said earlier that I could still be of comfort to Holo, even though my own homeland still exists."
"Y-yes!"
"I still find that hard to imagine. And what if she asks me to create a new home for her? That would put me in a difficult situation. And yet..."
"And yet I can't bear to see her ask such things of anyone else."
"So I suppose I'll just have to find another way to entice her, eh? Something that'll make her forget all about Piasky and his work."
"But of course, I can't tell her that, and quite honestly you have the worst of it, being subjected to our back-and-forth as much as you are."
"What's the matter?"
"I'm... sorry."
"For what? What possible reason could you have to apologize?"
"'Tis rather impressive that you don't think of me as some weakly sobbing female, but honestly, 'twas unbearable hearing such embarrassing things."
"So you don't wish to see me entreat another for help?"
"You're simply too adorable for... You-"
"...! Nngh...!"
"That makes us even."
"That makes us even."
"... It does,"
"Col, boy, for a duty well executed, you shall have your reward,"
"I'm thinking to leave today or perhaps tomorrow."
"Wha-?"
"With both of you, of course. We'll return to that port town - Yiku or whatever it was - and find some tasty food, drink our fill of wine, and sleep. The two of you should get some rest since it'll take three days in the snow to make our way back."
"You'll sleep till midday thanks to the wine. And when you awake, the three of us will come together and eat as we leisurely discuss whether or not to cross back over the sea. After all..."
"If something had happened the previous night at some faroff abbey - a great wolf attacking, say - you wouldn't know the first thing about it. And surely no one would think to connect you to such an event. You'd have been having a quiet, peaceful time, with no risk or danger at all."
"How about it?"
"If that's what you want, then I don't mind. I've already said as much, after all."
"Aye. And I've made quite sure of your feelings. To doubt them now would make me the fool."
"I am Holo, the Wisewolf of Yoitsu. When humans see me, they fear and serve me. But if I were afraid myself, what sort of fool would I be?"
"We can't leave today. Tomorrow or the day after perhaps."
"What say you, Col, my lad?"
"Well, then, that decides it. This means you'll end up hearing nothing that might profit you, though I'm not inclined to apologize for that,"
"If you're feeling sorry, then why not try an apology?"
"Kindly forgive me, then."
"I suppose this isn't so bad once in a while."
New Convo:

"This should put everything in order, then."
"I very much appreciate it."
"No, not at all. I've hardly been much help."
"I think we'll be able to leave tomorrow. Although..."
"Although?"
"A regular delivery from the capital in the west just arrived, and evidently the weather there is terrible. A messenger expected to arrive today still hasn't been seen. Doubtless that same weather will arrive here soon."
"I've naturally no inclination to persevere in the face of a blizzard. There are three things you don't defy: the Church, an infant, and the weather."
"With luck, it will veer north. And since the shepherds should return soon, I'll ask their advice. They'll have the best knowledge of conditions outside... Ah, Mr. Lawrence, aren't you staying in the same lodging as they are?"
"We are. It's the best place to gather such information."
"A blizzard?"
"The weather may turn bad. If it does, our departure may be delayed. Two days, even three..."
"Mm... now that you mention it, you may be right. My nose has gone numb from smelling naught but sheep."
"Ah, well, I suppose it's too late to complain about a few days' delay, isn't it?"
"So, then, what of dinner?"
"It's not finished boiling yet. And we're waiting for Huskins to return."
"Sho, whensh he coming bhack?"
"Soon I imagine. There's no moon tonight, and there's the cold."
"Mmph... well, I'm hungry."
"And he's out there raising that mutton. You should pay him some respect."
"Aye, but when have you paid me any respect?"
"And just when did you raise me, hmm?"
"Honestly."
"Ooh, what a lovely smell. Huskins is putting up good travelers, indeed."
"Apologies. It seems Huskins will be spending the night in the sheep barn. The snow's already begun to come down, you see. My two companions and I barely made it back with our lives."
"I see... We're sorry to make you go out of your way."
"Not at all. There's nothing so hard as waiting for a comrade to return, not knowing when or whether they'll come."
"All the more so when there's a tasty dinner waiting!"
"That's all!"
"So that means we'll have to wait until at least the day after tomorrow. Let us hope the harbor doesn't freeze solid,"
"Aye. Let us hope our soup stays unfrozen as well, eh?"
"It's not even done cooking yet,"
"..."
"-!"
"...?"
"Nn... mph..."
"... Hu-"
"..."
"... Oh, God,"
"... A wolf, eh..."
"Had you not the time to disguise yourself?"
"..."
"You're here to mock me, then?"
"... Is it not natural... for a sheep to hide itself before a wolf?"
"The best place to hide a tree is in the forest, eh? I never noticed."
"... I am not like you."
"And?"
"I have... a favor to ask."
"A favor?"
"It's a calamity... one far beyond my power to deal with."
"So you wish to borrow mine?"
"Your power is your fangs and claws... but the age when such things ruled has passed. I give you this..."
"To me?"
"Yes... to the man who travels with the wolf. I let you stay here because... I wished to observe you. But I believe it was the will of the gods."
"Hah, the gods, you say?"
"Just as you cling to this strange, gentle human... so, too, do I cling to the gods. That is all."
"I-I do not- I hardly-!"
"You're a merchant, are you not? Take this."
"What is it...?"
"I found a strayed shepherd in the snow. Such things often happen... my sheepdog found him. He looked to still be praying, though the life had already left him."
"In the end, I am a mere sheep. You understand, do you not, young wolf?"
"In the face of this letter, our strength means nothing,"
"Mr. Huskins. What do you need my help for?"
"The abbey..."
"... I want you to protect it."
"Er, I'm sorry, but - why?"
"It's no surprise you'd wonder. Why would I, of anyone, bow down before God? You see, I too have relied on humans to live. Just like the young wolf."
"I do not mean to anger you. I have taken human form and live a human life. It is no surprise I sought human strength."
"Hmph. So, what have you done with this strength you've borrowed from the humans?"
"A home."
"Eh?"
"Made a home. On this land. A home of our own."
"Nothing escapes the grasp of humans. Not the mountains, the forests, or the plains. So in order to create a place that would endure unchanging for centuries, we had no choice but to use their power. At first I was unsure whether it could succeed... but it did. A vast, quiet homeland was ours. And no matter who comes or when, they always say the same thing."
"... This place hasn't changed."
"It's our greatest desire. We were driven from our home long ago and scattered. Some to desolate wilderness, others hiding among humans in their towns. And some wandered endlessly... This is a place where we can all meet again. A place to which all may return, no matter how far afield they live. This place."
"That which scattered you... could it have been, was it the MoonHunting...?"
"Ha-ha... hah. So you know that much, do you? That will make things simpler to explain. Yes, it was indeed the Moon-Hunting Bear that took our home from us. Irawa Weir Muheddhunde in the old tongue."
"When the calamity came, we were powerless, and there was nothing we could do. And now times have changed, and to protect this place, we need a new kind of power. The devices of humans are too fine for my hooves."
"We've had many troubles thus far. But this time, finally, they may be more than we can handle."
"It was easier when the lords were still warring. The reason of our own era was enough to gain some small measure of stability then. But the long wars devastated the land. If the abbey were to fall, all would be lost. So I secretly aided Winfiel the First in unifying the nation. And that is where I erred."
"But children never remember the debt they owe their parents, to say nothing of grandchildren. I can no longer take the public stage. All I can do is occasionally show myself to add a bit of legitimacy to their rule."
"The legend... of the golden sheep."
"Quite so. Of course, a few of those moments were due to my own carelessness when greeting a friend I'd not seen in ages."
"I've no head for counting coins, but even I can tell the abbey is on the verge of ruin. With each round of taxation, the pay we're due falls more behind. Our friends have told us the abbey may not endure another round."
"But this is..."
"I no longer know what to do. If I could stamp it with my hooves or grind it with my teeth, I would do so... but you're a merchant, are you not? When humans drove our kind from the forests and mountains, 155/244 there were always merchants in the shadows. To see one such merchant laughing with a wolf..."
"You're the only one on whom we can rely."
"But-"
"I beg you."
"No."
"No. We cannot take such a risk."
"Holo..."
"If you cannot do it, you must refuse. And you yourself said that getting involved in this business was dangerous. We shall leave tomorrow. If not tomorrow, then the day after. We are travelers. This has naught to do with us."
"Su-surely 'tis so, is it not? You said as much yourself. You said that it was dangerous. That is why I said we should leave. And yet - and yet you're considering his request...!"
"Holo,"
"Young wolf, was your home destroyed by him as well?"
"We did not gain a new homeland easily. We took human form, became shepherds, and lived our lives quietly and unobtrusively. And we were prepared to do whatever it took to defend this land."
"I could-!"
"If it were to bring back my homeland... my Yoitsu... I, too, could..."
"I cannot but think you've never fought the bear, have you? Are you prepared to risk your life battling it?"
"When he came to my homelands, I ran. I ran, you see, because there were many who I knew needed my protection. I led them away, and we escaped. I can remember the moment even now. There was a great full moon in the sky that night. I could see the ridge of the mountains across the vast plains, and above it shone the bright, bright moon. And we fled the plains - those fertile plains whose grasses we'd long grazed upon."
"I looked back in the direction of my home, and I saw it. The shadow of a vast bear so huge it looked as though it could sit on the ridge of the mountains. It was beautiful - even now, I think so. It roared, it raised a paw up as though to hunt the moon, and that moment still..."
"Even now, I think upon it fondly. It was the last great ruler of our world. It was a time when power and might ruled all. All my anger has left me. All that remains now is my nostalgia..."
"F-for you, who ran like a coward, to speak of preparation... it is to laugh."
"To live among the humans in their world, I started eating meat. It's been centuries now."
"...!"
"To keep this, my homeland, we have given up much. We have crossed lines that should never have been crossed. And if it is lost, we may never find another land where we may live in peace."
"... I'm well aware that your young wolf there has suffered greatly in this world. And by some unfathomable luck, she's come to travel with a kind-hearted human. I understand that she doesn't wish to part with that. I understand that she wishes to protect it. But..."
"I, too, do not wish to part with this land. Our hard-won refuge..."
"It's - it's impossible,"
"Is it impossible?"
"... Once during my travels, there was an accident. The road was muddy from rain the previous day."
"The lead cart sank into the mire. We hurried to it and discovered that the merchant driving the cart was fortunate enough to be alive. He was flat on his back and looked quite embarrassed. He seemed to be injured, but we thought he'd survive. We thought so, and so did he..."
"But his belly had been opened. A tree branch had gotten him maybe. He didn't even realize it until he saw our expressions. He smiled stiffly and asked us to save him. But we weren't gods. All we could do was stay with him until the end."
"It's not that I wasn't sympathetic. But I also know the God who's supposed to deliver us seems to be so often absent. All I can do is be glad it wasn't me."
"That's not-!"
"That's all there was to do. And after I saw my unlucky friend off, I stood up and continued my journey, after taking as much from his cart as I could."
"It was a nice profit,"
"There's no danger in considering it at least."
"Pull there, please."
"Ah, y-yes!"
"There is no danger in considering the possibility. After all, at the moment, we're probably the only people who know about the contents of this letter."
"Given how important the message is, I can't imagine they'd send just one copy. Once the blizzard is over, I'm sure someone will arrive bearing the news. Which means we have a few options."
"Do - do you think anything can be done?"
"That's hard to say. But we can make some predictions. The abbey is cornered and so is the king. If we suppose that they're each employing their strategies of last resort, there are not very many possible outcomes. What's more, the Ruvik Alliance is also involved."
"Will Miss Holo be all right?"
"... This is unbearable for her, and she was unable to accept things as they are, so that's why she spoke as she did. But so long as the situation permits, she'll offer her help. Despite how she might look, she's quite kind. Which you're supposed to find surprising, by the way."
"She knows perfectly well how unsightly her jealousy is. In the face of Huskins's resolve, she must've felt like a child. Her pride as a wisewolf has been terribly wounded."
"I once told Holo something."
"What was that?"
"That there are many different ways to solve a problem. But once it's solved, we must live our lives. Which means we should choose not the simplest solution, but the one that will allow us to feel most at peace once it's done."
"And when I told her as much, she called me a fool. As though giving up on me. But I wonder if she could really abandon Huskins and move on so easily as that."
"As for where you stand, it hardly bears saying."
"Anyway, so far it's an emotional argument."
"So far?"
"I'm a merchant, after all. I don't act unless there's some profit in it."
"... Which means...?"
"This notice of taxation. If Huskins's words and Piasky's guesses are to be believed, it will wipe out the abbey entirely. Which means this is a perfect opportunity for us. They say before a great wave comes, the sea recedes and lays the ocean floor bare. Thus..."
"You'd be able to see all the treasure that used to be underwater."
"Exactly. If there's anything there, they won't be able to hide it. As far as Holo's original goal goes, this is hardly useless. Although whether she chooses to take it by force will be up to her."
"I'm just not as clever as you are, Mr. Lawrence."
"The night is long, and we have a fire. Col-"
"Yes!"
"Lend me your wisdom."
"Of course!"
"...-"
"Fool."
"You fool..."
"Aye, how lucky I am."
"This world so often does not go as one would wish, and still."
"Our God tells us to share what we have with others,"
"Even our good fortune?"
"Even our good fortune. I think I've put that into practice quite nicely."
"..."
"I even let Col use that tail of yours,"
"My body felt as though it were aflame."
"Was that-"
"-because of what I said?"
"Ah well, all creatures are alike in that they tend toward selfishness. It has been a long time indeed since I've felt such envy for the belongings of another. 'Tis almost comforting."
"Well, of course it was comforting - it's always a comfort to be so childishly selfish."
"Humans and sheep think the same way."
"Enough for you and I to argue about it certainly."
"Mm. Unless we fight over the same thing, curse each other with the same words, and glare at each other from the same height, it is not a true fight."
"I have a little wisdom and experience. Col has intellect and imagination."
"And what do I have?"
"You have a responsibility,"
"A responsibility to turn our travels into a tale that will be long told. Isn't it perfect, the tale of a wolf coming to the aid of sheep?"
"Is there any chance for victory?"
"I have a measure of confidence in my own cleverness... but this sort of situation is not my specialty."
"Of course, an old mercenary general once said that one cannot continue winning battles with a single strategy. Constantly shifting tactics are the best way to defeat one's opponent. And-"
"And?"
"Only the gods are capable of that."
"Remember that,"
"The question is whether the abbey does in fact possess the bones. And that seems very likely."
"Yes. Nothing else fits the story Piasky told us so perfectly."
"You should ally yourselves with the pack you already know, not the abbey, don't you think? Nothing is so frightful as an ally whose 170/244 thoughts you cannot divine."
"Yes. The men of the alliance aren't fools, and given the men like Piasky in their employ, they want stability for this land. Huskins and his people may find their territory a bit smaller, but their goals are similar."
"So what can Kraft Lawrence, a mere traveling merchant, hope to do here?"
"The wolf bones must be of crucial importance to the other side. Our information points to them as being the only real possibility. So the information will be taken very seriously, and the greater its potential to break the stalemate, the more seriously it will be taken. And that's where traveling merchants like me have room to maneuver."
"And this is the way of it truly? Are you sure this is correct? Will all truly be well? Truly? For certain? I believe you - I trust you, I do."
"In exchange for the proof, I'll ask you to hear a few of my questions, as well."
"The notice of taxation or whatever 'tis called will make them starved for time."
"I don't think they'll be able to avoid the negotiating table. Once a messenger arrives with the notice, there will be very little time left. If they dawdle, the profit will vanish. Better the coin purse starve than the belly, they say."
"Hmph."
"'Tis well, I suppose."
"Well, then, so be it."
"Now, then."
"I suppose I'm off."
"Ho! To think we'd have a customer so early, even in this weather."
"Of course. The worse the weather, the larger the gain."
"Ha-ha-ha. Too right!"
"Looking for Lag?"
"Is it written so obviously on my face?"
"You'll find him in the study."
"My thanks to you."
"Here for business?"
"Indeed. Big business."
"Good morning to you."
"And to you. What brings you here?"
"Actually, something happened last night that bothered me."
"Bothered you? Please, have a seat."
"Yes. It was so extraordinary that I couldn't sleep at all for thinking it over,"
"Oh?"
"Whatever could it be? Don't tell me you've found a way to break the abbey's resistance."
"Yes, that's it exactly."
"And?"
"Are you familiar with the port town of Kerube, across the Strait of Winfiel?"
"I know it. It's a trade point between the north and the south. I've never conducted business there, but the delta there is a fine place."
"Quite so. That's the town. Are you familiar with a silly rumor that arrived there around two years ago?"
"As I recall... something about the bones of a pagan god?"
"Indeed. The bones of a wolf."
"And what about those bones?"
"Suppose the abbey purchased the bones."
"The abbey...?"
"Yes. Even if they are the bones of a pagan god, they could be used to reinforce the authority of the Church's God. They could be used to preach to all who gather in the sanctuary to pray for salvation, and they could be treated by the abbey as an investment, becoming 175/244 something for those searching for a practical way to break the deadlock to cling to."
"I think that even if wool sales have been falling over the years, it would take a certain amount of time for the situation to become this dire. The abbey would have chosen a way to shelter its assets years ago because the nation's coin has been falling in value all along. For one, they would buy up goods with that coin - if possible, goods that could be sold anywhere in the world for about as much as they'd been bought for. That way, if the local currency did indeed crash years later, the abbey could sell the bones for foreign currency and then bring that coin back to this kingdom. And just as we were able to stay at that fine inn in Kerube, they'd be treated as the richest men in the land."
"What say you?"
"Wait, I'm too shocked to speak."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"Yes."
"It's true that what you're saying seems plausible."
"It does,"
"But we are the Ruvik Alliance. That is... This is difficult to say, but..."
"What is?"
"Well, er, I'll be blunt. We long ago considered that possibility."
"... Huh?"
"It's a well-known rumor. And well-"
"Truly, many people, many of our brightest comrades have put their minds to this problem."
"We concluded that no such relic existed. When the story first appeared, one of our men was in Kerube at the time, and he looked into it through a company we're connected with there. What he found was that only a single other company was searching for the bones, and it was a half jest even to them. They didn't have the size to purchase a true holy relic, nor did they have such funds. It was just to improve their reputation. Such things happen, you know, after drunken boasting in taverns or exchanges of jokes."
"It's just a fairy tale,"
"And what if it isn't just a fairy tale?"
"... Surely you jest."
"I will leave it to you to decide whether I am in earnest or not."
"No, Mr. Lawrence, you must stop this. If my reply was unfair, I apologize. But we've all thought this through together very thoroughly - that's why I lost my temper. So please-"
"So please don't upset you by saying such baseless things?"
"Fifteen hundred coins."
"What?"
"How many crates do you suppose it takes to hold fifteen hundred gold lumione pieces?"
"M-Mr. Lawrence."
"What say you, Mr. Piasky?"
"I'd like to continue to use you for all contact with the alliance."
"We can break this stalemate. I'd like you to take that critical role. It's not such a bad proposition, is it?"
"B-but..."
"But do you have any proof?"
"Trust is always invisible."
"The abbey wouldn't be so foolish as to write 'wolf bones' in their records. They would make up some other term and record that instead. But nothing can stay hidden forever. If you read over the records expecting to find nothing, nothing is precisely what you'll find - but if you suspect something of being hidden and look again, things may be different. What say you, eh?"
"To be perfectly honest, I happen to have something that lends some credence to the story of the wolf bones. But truthfully, it's too big a story for a traveling merchant like me. If I told this directly to the alliance officials, there's no telling whether they'd trust me or not. I need someone to vouch for me."
"But..."
"Please think it over. I did manage to win Mr. Deutchmann's trust in the port town. Me - nothing more than a simple traveling merchant."
"Mr. Piasky."
"... I just... I simply can't..."
"What if-"
"What if I told you the king was taking action?"
"Wha... huh? What-what sort of...?"
"A tax."
"What good will it do to tell them now?"
"What good-? I must inform them immediately!"
"Inform them? And then make a plan?"
"That has nothing to do with you!"
"Even though you long ago lost your hand to play?"
"...!"
"Please calm yourself. Even if you did tell the alliance of this, you would only be needlessly worrying them. If a new tax comes, the abbey will be ruined. And when that happens, they'll choose between falling to their knees before the king and begging for mercy or dying valiantly. But if someone reveals that the abbey has a pagan item like the wolf bones, what do you suppose the abbey will conclude?"
"Mr. Piasky, the time left to us is dwindling, and we will only have a single opportunity. Before all descends into chaos, we must put this attractively mad idea to the powers that be. And even if we don't have their agreement, we'll have their attention, so when chaos does fall, we'll be easier to notice. After all, a drowning man will reach for whatever's nearest. I'm optimistic enough to think this will succeed. You see-"
"-I'm quite certain the story of the wolf bones is true."
"Mr. Piasky."
"What proof do you have that this tax is real?"
"I'm staying with the shepherds at the moment. When something gets dropped outside, I can be the first one to see it."
"When did this happen?"
"Late last night. That's one of the reasons I couldn't sleep."
"Fifteen hundred pieces."
"Huh?"
"Fifteen hundred pieces of lumione gold. How much volume did that come to?"
"I won't let you regret this,"
"Fifteen hundred pieces of gold. I'd like to see that much just once in my life."
"You will. If all goes well."
"I'd best hope so!"
New Convo:

"It needs to be someone curious but who can be trusted with a secret. Someone quick-witted but with time to spare, the kind of person you'd seek out even if they weren't the head of a great trading company - and perhaps God is with us, because there are many such people in the town right now."
"Can I count on you to find them, then?"
"Yes. We'll take a day or two to go over all the records again. Now that we know there's something to find, it shouldn't be hard to find it."
"That's encouraging."
"I'd like to finish the early preparation before the blizzard ends. We'll only be able to get others to listen to us if they have time to spare. And we'll need... something... persuasive enough to bring them over."
"I won't let you down on that count. Leave it to me."
"Incidentally..."
"Yes?"
"I'd like to talk about how we'll divide the profit."
"If things go well, I don't think we'll make an amount small enough the division will be worth talking about."
"..."
"I can't say I don't sometimes wish I were in the simple business of buying and selling something."
"I've often wished I could trade only for myself,"
"Would that be good or bad?"
"At the very least, it wouldn't be so tiresome."
"Quite. That's where disasters start."
"We'll arm ourselves with parchment and ink. And what about you, Mr. Lawrence?"
"My testimony. And some parchment as well."
"In any case, the whole of my bet will be on you, Mr. Lawrence."
"I'm well aware of what that means."
"I'll go and find some allies, then. What will you do next, Mr. Lawrence?"
"I need to meet with my companions. The situation being what it is, the word of those whose hands are hidden under their robes may be more trustworthy than the word of those whose hands are stained with ink."
"I'll be hoping for the blizzard to continue a while,"
"as it seems our time may be quite limited."
"Please come directly to my office next time. May I... call on you in your lodgings, Mr. Lawrence?"
"Certainly. I'll be counting on you."
"For the moment, it seems our first bait has been taken."
"I'm going to sleep a bit. Piasky's capable friends will be poring over the abbey records, so I'm sure they'll find something amiss soon enough."
"... Just you, eh?"
"I was trying to decide whether to wake you or not."
"Did you feel bad for me, seeing how tired I'd been?"
"Your face was so foolish I quite lost the desire to rouse you."
"Did something happen?"
"When the snow began to let up, some men from the abbey came. The messenger that was supposed to arrive today or tomorrow hasn't arrived yet, and they wanted to know if the shepherds know anything of it."
"What did Mr. Huskins tell them?"
"The dead man he found had definitely been the messenger they sought, he said, and he'd feign ignorance for the time being. The 189/244 messenger was far enough away that no ordinary shepherd is likely to find him, he said. Young Col went along with him."
"What shall we do?"
"Right now all we can do is wait. Once Piasky finds something that we can use as proof, we'll try to get an audience with the alliance authorities."
"Mm..."
"Could you just once make a decision without checking on my tail, hmm?"
"O-one always needs proof before taking major action!"
"Fool."
"Of course, you'll have a role to play as well,"
"Do you want me to chew those ears right off your head?"
"The alliance is a large organization. The members that are here in this town now are only a part of it. I imagine the real leaders are somewhere nice and warm, far from all this snow. But the reality remains the same - to spur a large group to action, you need persuasion equal to the scale. Sometimes something beyond mere facts and proof is needed."
"I get very nervous when I have to stand up before a group, but you're a natural actress,"
"For knowledge we have Col. I'll take care of putting it into practice."
"And what of me?"
"Atmosphere."
"'Tis true, I'm always the one who creates the atmosphere. And you're the one who always ruins it,"
"..."
"Atmosphere and mood are very important since displaying concrete proof is impossible. It's very important to make them think this bet is one worth taking. All joking aside..."
"It will determine success or failure."
"You may rely on me. The old man told me something, you see."
"What did he say?"
"He said that upon our success, he'll give me the fattest sheep of the year."
"He told me much of his troubles - in creating a new home and in protecting it."
"Was it useful?"
"... Aye."
"I see."
"Now, then,"
"Time is running short."
"..."
"Come now, don't make such a face. Or did you want to flail about again?"
"Excuse us."
"You'll have to excuse us for a moment. You there-"
"Yes!"
"A traveling merchant, are you?"
"That's right. We're staying here as we couldn't find a room elsewhere."
"I see. So you're with the Ruviks?"
"No. I'm attached to the Rowen Trade Guild."
"Hn."
"Might I ask what the matter is?"
"Oh, nothing too out of the ordinary... You said you were in the Rowen Trade Guild?"
"Yes."
"I don't recall that our abbey has had any dealings with that organization."
"True. We're not actually here on business."
"Oh?"
"The little lamb there and I have come to the grand Brondel Abbey in the hopes of receiving its blessings."
"... You're on pilgrimage?"
"Yes."
"Speaking of Rowen, I seem to recall hearing that name across the strait. There are some famous churches and abbeys over there, are there not? St. Liebert Abbey, La Kieak Abbey, the Church of Gibralta. Or Ruvinheigen."
"We heard tell of a holy relic."
"A holy relic,"
"Yes. I heard that this place has a love of sheep as well as of God. It seemed perhaps better suited than the other places you just named, to a merchant like myself."
"I see... Well, you seem a well-traveled merchant. God's blessings be upon you!"
"Marco!"
"Did you find anything?"
"Nothing."
"I see."
"The cuckoo lays its eggs in the nests of other birds. Search these two."
"In God's name, please endure this."
"What's this?"
"Wheat?"
"It's a charm..."
"Wah... uuh..."
"God has proven your innocence."
"If you'll excuse me."
"Look out!"
"Is she hurt?"
"She's safe,"
"We'll take her to the other room."
"Are you finished?"
"Right, take off your coat."
"Next."
"All right."
"God has revealed the truth."
"We're sorry to have troubled you. God will surely reward the faith you have shown in your pilgrimage."
"I honestly never noticed,"
"So you thought I was just bawling the whole time? Funny-"
"I was sure you'd noticed."
"Ah, well, we've gotten away with it so I suppose it hardly matters. And I got to see your foolish face, too."
"Apologies,"
"Still, the abbey may now send men out to meet the messengers."
"Will they return by tomorrow?"
"There's quite a distance involved, and the sun will soon be setting. It will be tomorrow evening or possibly the day after... so what say you? Will things go well?"
"I cannot guarantee that. But I have faith in the man I've asked to help."
"I see... Still..."
"I shouldn't have doubted you. Humans are very clever. I just didn't want to admit it out of pride. Or envy,"
"Mr. Lawrence."
"I found it."
"I've asked for your help, so I trust you."
"May I bring my companions?"
"I don't mind. Quite the contrary, please do. Did I see monks from the abbey here a moment ago?"
"Yes. They were extremely unpleasant."
"Were they? Still, I assume from your saying so that the outcome was pleasant. I'm encouraged that they were already here. Or maybe the opposite of that."
"If we're going to strike, we must do it now."
"The two monks that visited you are especially hated over at the alliance inn,"
"Constantly asking whether their messengers have arrived or whether we've gotten their letters. They've even tried to go through our things. I suppose that goes to show how desperate they are. The abbey must be worried that if the king plans to decree a tax, he'll be doing it soon."
"I see. So they think danger is imminent."
"So, what have you found?"
"Since we were suspicious this time, it wasn't difficult. When something expensive is purchased after all, the only way to hide it is with an equally expensive sale. However, this is only a supposition - it only looks as though we've found it. We can't be certain."
"In particular, their regular expenditures are less distinct and easier to hide in. Trying to hide a onetime cost is far more conspicuous. Concretely speaking, such things are robes and such for the monks, building materials, masonry costs, and spices for the periodic welcome banquets they have."
"Our advantage is in having so many merchants. With so many eyes and ears, we can bring together information from places separated by great distances. The spice, saffron, came via two separate towns, and it was the key."
"Meaning?"
"When the purchase was made, saffron wasn't the only good to arrive in the town. A comrade of mine happened to be there at the time, you see. The ship it was on was delayed by a storm. The royal merchants handling import and export knew what the monastery's goal was and managed to turn it to their advantage. If they were going to pay money for empty crates, it could be used to cover a bigger expenditure somewhere. But that wound up being their undoing."
"The expenditure for those items was above market value. Either that or the crates really were empty. There were items there that even we didn't understand. Still-"
"-That's more than enough,"
"So, tonight?"
"If the main abbey is going to the trouble of sending out monks, they must be in a desperate state. And they may have even dispatched shepherds out to go meet the messengers."
"If you're ready, Mr. Lawrence, the men in charge are all gathered."
"That is fine."
"Well, then,"
"Let us go."
"Here we are."
"Excuse us."
"I, Lag Piasky, humbly approach."
"There's no time. Spare us your pleasantries."
"So you're from Rowen, eh?"
"Yes."
"Hmm."
"May I speak?"
"Thank you for sparing us some of your time to hear us out. First, this-"
"Copies of their ledger, eh? What of it?"
"There was a payment for empty crates. We also discovered payments for multiple items at higher than market value."
"That's not such a rare occurrence from places unable to escape the yoke of taxation."
"Yes, of course."
"So what is the meaning of showing us this now?"
"We believe the abbey is trying to hide not its earnings, but its expenditures."
"Expenditures?"
"Yes,"
"You said you were from Rowen. Do you speak for Lord Goldens?"
"No, I do not."
"So, who then?"
"Allow me to correct myself. I am a stray traveling merchant."
"And how are we to believe that?"
"Pardon me,"
"If you'll give me parchment, I'll be happy to sign in blood."
"You there."
"Sometimes you must take risks while you're young enough to do so. I'll listen to your tale out of respect for your name, not Rowen's."
"My name is Kraft Lawrence."
"Kraft Lawrence, what have you and our own Lag Piasky concluded? You said the abbey is hiding its own expenditures. As far as paying for empty crates or paying above market value, these things are not so unusual in the context of paying royal taxation. It's not worth any special attention."
"True, if they were merely evading taxation."
"And what else might they be hiding?"
"The purchase of an expensive item. Something whose existence had to be kept a secret."
"An item? What sort of item would that be?"
"The bones of a wolf. The remains of a creature known as a god by the pagans that infest the northlands."
"This is no baseless rumor. Across the strait is the port town of Kerube, where the Jean Company runs a shop. I suspect you may have already heard of this, but not long ago there was a great clamor about a narwhal and into that whirlpool the Jean Company put fifteen hundred lumione."
"They had received backing from the Debau Company in the town of Lesko, up the Roef River, a tributary of the Roam River. Their aim was nothing less than the purchase of those same wolf bones."
"So what say you to this?"
"If you have any thoughts, please tell us."
"God has told us never to pretend disinterest."
"Miss... no, excuse me, devout sister who lives by her daily prayers - just what do you mean?"
"God is a being whose powers far outstrip those of man. Though my eyes are hidden by the hood I wear and though my head is always bowed, by relying on God's power, it is mere child's play to see through all of this."
"Well... thank you for your thoughts, sister."
"So, shall I ask again, then?"
"No,"
"That's quite all right."
"That will be quite all right. I was simply reminded of something from twenty-two years ago."
"It reminded me of my wife when she and her dowry joined my house. Logic is not the only path to truth."
"And indeed, common business decisions often surpass mere logic. Gentlemen,"
"May I ask the final question?"
"No objections,"
"Regarding all of this, Kraft Lawrence, I would ask you one thing."
"Yes?"
"Pray tell, just what is it that you've discovered that gives you such confidence in this story?"
"This letter was given to me by Fleur von Eiterzental Mariel Bolan."
"Anything else?"
"-?"
"Anything else?"
"The Wolf and the Keen Eye - it's true that the names of two such famous merchants carry some weight. But if we are to be basing our decisions on the weights of names, there are others to whom we should lend our ear. Even here."
"Lawrence."
"Wait, also...!"
"I've seen a wolf."
"A wolf?"
"A giant wolf."
"That wolf is why I'm traveling. That giant wolf."
"... Were you born in the north?"
"These two were."
"I see,"
"I see. I suppose this, too, is fate."
"God's blessings be upon us!"
"The truth will always be revealed. No matter how extraordinary it may be."
"... Wha-?"
"We've been waiting. Or perhaps that's not quite it - perhaps it's better to say we've been unable to make up our minds."
"What do you...?"
"We had word that the Brondel Abbey had purchased the bones of a wolf. But the decision to act carried consequences too heavy for the four of us to bear. We couldn't commit to the decision. You see..."
"... We're old, and we'd unearthed the information with rusty tools and could not trust it. But if someone younger were to reach the same conclusion without relying on logic alone, then we could believe it."
"S-so..."
"Yes. We know that Brondel Abbey is backed into a corner. There will be no more delaying. But if they've truly purchased the wolf bones, there is action we may take."
"The war has been hard on old men like us. When you get to this age, you fight with dirty tricks."
"Quite so! Our opponent has no shortcomings, but this information will be a fatal poison to the abbey."
"Well, then,"
"Please leave it to us."
"Incidentally, I also have this."
"This is... but... how did you...?"
"I believe this taxation decree could lead to one of the following outcomes."
"Traditionally the abbey will have money. The king knows this, which is why he's chosen this method. Even a merchant will have a 217/244 nest egg in either cash or real goods. I very much doubt they'll be holding certificates."
"The king is probably thinking to seize this opportunity to destroy the abbey, which holds such influence in this area, while simultaneously driving us from his nation. He'll both seize the abbey's land in lieu of taxes, then conveniently rid himself of us by eliminating our goal."
"He's probably also thinking to monopolize the wool trade."
"That's quite possible. Nowhere else moves nearly as much wool. He could set prices however he liked."
"If the abbey hasn't purchased the wolf bones, they would be able to scrape together the coins to comply with the tax. But if they don't have the money at all..."
"... They'll simply pretend to pay,"
"They could just fill crates with stones, then toss them into a valley somewhere and claim there'd been an accident during the journey. The shepherds doubtless know of places where such an incident could be staged, and if there isn't a valley handy, then a frozen marsh would do fine."
"So how much money will they be told to move?"
"It probably won't be entirely gold coins, so... hmm. Probably ten or fifteen crates, each roughly this size."
"Even if they put them on a sleigh, given the snow, there'll be a limit. They'll have to make it a caravan."
"It won't be a group small enough to hide."
"I see. So if we reveal our knowledge of the tax decree, there will be very little they can do. And if we offer to cooperate with them in their tax evasion, we might get a seat at the negotiating table."
"If we're going to act, we should act soon. If we induce them to panic, they might do something rash and lose everything. After all, no matter how desperate they become, they're still servants of God. The could decide to die as martyrs rather than live in shame."
"And some of them are worthy of a measure of respect. We're not thieves. We must act carefully."
"The castle on the hill is seen by all."
"Well, then, let's reveal the truth to the monks here in the annex. Is the unpleasant pair from before still wandering about somewhere?"
"I'll go check. If they can't be found, shall we tell the others?"
"No, don't tell them. Those two are the louts of the sanctuary. Tell Prior Lloyd. He should be doing his daily duties at the moment, and most of all, he can actually still ride a horse."
"Very well,"
"Let's have men posted in all the taverns and lodges, just to be safe. Though I doubt the sluggish sanctuary council will be able to reach a quick enough decision to start moving crates."
"There are some blood relatives of some of the high-ranking monks in the royal court. Given those connections, the monastery may be anticipating things to a certain extent, so we can't be too careful."
"Quite so. However, I do think everything will work out in our favor."
"The blessings of God be upon us."
"I'm sorry I can't be of more help"
"'Tis true, we no longer possess any real power."
"Huh. When I grow weary, look how maudlin I become."
"They're here! The men from the main abbey are here!"
"Aren't they here yet?"
"Hush!"
"I am a messenger from the abbot,"
"Thank you for coming. Perhaps we should move inside, first."
"There is no need,"
"This is the abbot's reply: 'As the servants of God, we will never submit to faithless foreigners. Never! We shall pay the king his taxes and continue to offer our prayers to God.'"
"What is the meaning of this?"
"It's impossible... do they claim they'll have funds left over, even after they pay their tax?"
"This can't be... What are they thinking? Do they believe they can gain the king's protection by paying his tax? They should know better than anyone such a thing will not happen..."
"If they said they'll be paying the tax, won't that mean they'll have to transport the money? Then we have but to confirm that! If it comes out that they're actually unable to pay-"
"Or maybe they plan to feign an accident while we're still thrown into confusion!"
"That could be. Perhaps that's why they arrived at their decision so quickly. They don't want to give us any time to think."
"Yes, that's it!"
"Did the letter say when they were going to pay the tax?"
"Today at midday, following the path Saint Hiuronius took across the snowy plains."
"I knew it! They're practically challenging us to come!"
"If they're leaving at midday, there's no time to waste. The area around Sulieri Hill is mostly bogs - the perfect place for faking an accident."
"Let's go! Profit takes courage!"
"The abbey may have laid a trap."
"If we go, we'll be playing right into their hands."
"Why is that?"
"If we open the crates and they're filled with coin, that does the alliance no good."
"Perhaps. But it's just as likely we'll play into their hands by not opening the crates. We've done all this work and it's come to nothing. So now we have this chance, and it's a good one. What could it be but God's will? If we let this chance slip, all of this will have been wasted!"
"And if we do fall into a trap, what then? We'll just escape. We were going to leave if we couldn't buy the land anyway, so it matters little. So why let this chance for profit escape?"
"That's right!"
"Wait... you're not even with the alliance, are you?"
"You're just trying to divide us and buy them some time."
"So, what of it?"
"Huh-?"
"Wait, please!"
"Wait! There's a way to find out what's in the crates!"
"What'd you say?"
"Wait! Let's hear him out!"
"A trap is useless if you don't catch the game you're after."
"What do you mean?"
"If they're after the alliance, all we have to do is let someone else fall into the trap. It'll be useless then."
"Hmph... so, are you saying you'll go in our place?"
"Well, then, who will undertake this duty?"
"The sheep."
"Oh, of course!"
"So that's how it is."
"You want me to use sheep... to attack humans?"
"To put it simply, yes."
"Will you lend us your strength, Mr. Huskins?"
"Hah-hah... so it's finally come to this for us, eh?"
"Have you forgotten just who it was who asked for my companion's aid?"
"Holo,"
"I don't mind. Only a man can understand the beauty of decline, after all."
"So you'll help us, then?"
"Of course. Who but me could do it?"
"I thank you kindly. With this I feel I'll finally have found a place in this new world."
"We cannot act with the freedom we once had. But..."
"But we still have homes, and we still have roles to play. You haven't yet seen your homeland, so don't start weeping just yet. You'll make this poor young man's life very hard."
"A mere sheep, and yet-"
"by your leave."
"Swords and bows would've been useless."
"Ho, there."
"I'm glad to see you unhurt."
"Hah... well, of course. Never would have thought I would be able to end this with my own hands."
"It was the decisive blow."
"I suppose so... My kind stands above humans. And humans stand above sheep. But times change. It's natural for that order to be reversed."
"Ah, by the way, where'd that young wolf get off to?"
"Ah, Holo? I expect she's in the abbey's treasure vault as we speak."
"Hah! Hah. Is that so?"
"Is something the matter?"
"Hmm? Ah, no, it's nothing. I treated that wolf like a child, but it seems that I'm the childish one."
"Hardship forges strong friendships. I have the sense that I've found myself a member of a different flock entirely."
"... Do you mean-?"
"I see you take my meaning. Wolf and sheep are wolf and sheep. That's only the natural order of things."
"How long do you plan to ignore natural order?"
"I'm a merchant - so I'll do it as long as there's more profit to be had."
"It was a foolish question. I'm no different - I'm a sheep, yet I've become quite fond of my sheepdog."
"Why would you ask me such a thing?"
"I can't decide which side to tell."
"Tell what?"
"This is a place where people gather, so information naturally collects here, too."
"The wolf told me that you're bound for an ancient place called Yoitsu, yes?"
"Th-that's right."
"I've heard that name and recently, too."
"It came up among some disturbing news my comrades brought to me."
"Our king's tax and the wolf bones you deduced that Brondel Abbey purchased - they may have a connection to this news. You see-"
"Good fortune to you."
"And my thanks."
"Good fortune to you."
"Any luck?"
"So, how did it go?"
"What do you think?"
"Fake,"
"What makes you think that?"
"Because I can't have you crying again."
"'Twouldn't bother me so much either way. I'm Holo the Wisewolf, after all."
"Your clothes. They're inside out."
"They were fake, weren't they?"
"They were fake,"
"They were probably from a stag, from the thickest part of the hind leg. Surely it was buried for a long time."
"I wish I could've been next to you when they opened the box,"
"And just what do you think you are grinning at? How vulgar."
"It's nothing. Come, let's hurry back. We'll need to make a fire in the hearth."
"Aye, to make stew with plenty of salt and meat!"