
"That's strange...I don't think I threw it away, and since Hanna doesn't use it, it should be here..."
"Can you not find it?"
"I can't ask you to sniff out the smell of stone, huh?"
"Had you slept with it in your arms every night, I may have."
"I'd probably suffer horribly if I cheated on you."
"Fool. I would tear you to shreds for such adultery."
"I'll be sure to keep that in mind."
"As long as you make sure it stays in your puny mind."
"'Tis full of things."
"It's been ten years since we started the bathhouse. It's quite a collection now."
"Mm. 'Tis true, seeing this and that brings back memories."
"This netting as well...Had we not used this as a cradle for Myuri?"
"She fit so well in such a small thing."
"Yeah, she's grown up fast."
"Hmm, oh, right."
"Mm?"
"Myuri used to mess around in here sometimes. She might've just taken it to use in one of her pranks."
"'Tis quite possible. I recall she was interested in making ointments at one time."
"She may have considered it too much work to put it away and buried it someplace on the mountain."
"...I'll ask her."
"Hey, I'm closing up now."
"What's wrong?"
"Mmm...I feel as though I may recall something..."
"Ahh, aye."
"This...It may be next to impossible to find the mill."
"Huh?"
"That's right, I remember now."
"You obtained this vial on our journey so long ago, yes? Did Myuri not find it here and press questions upon us with her usual curiosity?"
"Why do we head east?"
"Didn't I tell you?"
"I wish we could go west, too. We've been living on the road for three weeks now. I want to splurge on a room with a wool-stuffed bed and drink wine to my heart's content. I want to wake up late, eat lunch with the windows open, and lazily gaze out on lively town streets."
"And you have tossed such important things aside all for a chance to make money!"
"That's right. I love gold. Oh, beautiful lumione!"
"But the abbot at a monastery who I have known for many years through peddling has asked me a favor, so I have no choice but to go. And he's asked me to check on an unlucky lamb who was suddenly called home to serve as a lord, even though it was his family who decided to place him in the monastery at a young age. Not only will we be able to get close to this new young lord, who's probably facing great hardship from his ignorance about earthly matters and totally unable to tell his left from his right, but we might even have a chance to help him! Any merchant would go, and those who wouldn't...are definitely not merchants."
"You..."
"I know, I know. Know that I'll make it up to you."
"..."
"Though the place where we're heading is small, it's still the house of a lord. Look forward to the hospitality..."
"I get it. I promise. If we get to the lord's house and they give this traveling merchant the cold shoulder, then we'll go to a nearby town. We'll spend our money there."
"I wish to bid farewell to cold porridge and spoiled ale."
"And you absolutely must bathe."
"Huh?"
"If you wish to use my tail for warmth in the cold evenings, then you must clean yourself a tad more. I shall not tolerate any mites or lice!"
"...I don't smell that bad..."
"I always smell of sweet, fragrant flowers, but you simply never notice."
"That's thanks to the oil you use on your tail. It was expensive, after all."
"You fool. I have always smelled this way!"
"...If you say so."
"Mm. Quite suddenly, I smell something sweet. Perhaps someone is baking?"
"No, this..."
"Aha."
"How marvelous!"
"There is, however...too much of a good thing..."
"Perhaps the villagers here do not get on?"
"But the roads are very clean, considering that. The grass is cut, and the dirt is hardened. There are also lots of chickens."
"There must be a reason. It's odd that there's such a wide-open field, but they haven't cultivated much of it."
"Perhaps the king here is wicked, and everyone has run off? Perhaps we should flee, too?"
"I don't think that's impossible, but according to the abbot, the person who took up the seat of the new lord is someone truly worthy of faith. I don't think he'd do anything cruel."
"...Hmph."
"I see now. They are the sort to subsist every day of their lives on nothing but roasted beans and water, aye? Even at the table they act as though someone has died—so silent, so gloomy..."
"If that is where we must go, then look, why not that house? There are onions and dried trout hanging from the eaves. There are chickens and pigs in the garden, and the soil in the vegetable plot is an earthy black."
"But not every monk who lives at an abbey is so straitlaced. Not to mention the kind of monastery that the houses of fine lords would visit, even the ones in poor, remote villages. I don't think they'd welcome nobles with roasted beans and onions."
"And we're dealing with a young lord who has suddenly been cast out into the mortal world and is deeply troubled. If we manage this well, then I'm sure we'll get some help when we open a store."
"You...! I have had enough!"
"Holo."
"Hmph."
"Hello."
"I see everyone's gathered together. Talks about the spring festival, perhaps?"
"A traveling merchant, I see. Our village's festival is in the summer."
"Good horse."
"Yes, I typically make my rounds on merchant routes more north of here, but I've been asked a favor."
"A favor?"
"I've heard the ruling lord here is new and has recently taken over. An old acquaintance has asked me to give respects in his stead."
"Oh ho. So you mean the abbey our lord is from?"
"Yes. By orders of the abbot there."
"And so, would you be able to tell me where the lord's manor is?"
"Well, you have perfect timing,"
"The landlord just happens to be here in this house on business. I shall mention you."
"This is the merchant."
"Huh?"
"Are you the messenger from Ivan Abbey?"
"Is something the matter?"
"Oh no, my apologies."
"This is from the abbot."
"Th-thank...you."
"Mr....Lawrence?"
"Yes."
"I am Kraft Lawrence. I am a traveling merchant. I have known the abbot for a long time."
"Which means you are the one to thank for such delicious bread at the abbey."
"What makes bread delicious are the hands of a baker and the blessings of God."
"That may be true, but the letter says that you have a traveling companion."
"Please forgive her rudeness, but she is lying down in the back of the wagon. It seems the long journey has taken its toll."
"Oh, well then."
"Now, please come to the house."
"But it seemed you were in the middle of something important, my lady."
"No...We're done for now."
"Let us continue discussing this at a later date."
"As you wish."
"Do you want to know?"
"The abbot instructed me to help you, my lady."
"my lady"
"Please don't call me that."
"Then what am I to call you?"
"I'm sorry. I haven't introduced myself yet."
"I am Amalie Draustem-Hadish, the seventh lord of this land."
"I still can't believe it, though."
"Then, Lady Draustem?"
"They called me Amalie at the abbey."
"Then, Lady Amalie."
"Lady is too formal..."
"Lady Amalie."
"Well, it's a pleasure to meet you."
"No, the pleasure is all mine."
"So the abbot has instructed me to be your pen in this world, Lady Amalie."
"Ha...Well, it's quite the regrettable story."
"Hmm. Now we can relax a bit."
"You fool."
"You will go anywhere to aid helpless females, will you not?"
"softhearted"
"cheater."
"No, actually..."
"Silence."
"Sigh...I was displeased by what an inattentive idiot you are, but to think that you were actually a fool who did not notice the ruler of this land was female in the first place!"
"You are an extraordinary idiot."
"I assumed the landlord would be a man."
"I had no idea that was why you were in such a bad mood."
"..."
"Hmph. Why would I be in a bad mood? You are not bold enough to cheat on me, not to mention, you are not handsome enough to attract other females."
"That may be true."
"But you might like watching me gallantly saving troubled girls, huh?"
"...Fool."
"Bathe first."
"...Is it really that bad?"
"And you have work to do. It all seemed rather troublesome. Will you be all right? I shall not allow you to endanger yourself around me, aye?"
"Your powers could solve this instantly."
"I am not a dog."
"Finding a hand mill itself isn't hard."
"If those hand mills or whatnot are the reason why they refrain from using the water mill, then 'tis logical to retrieve them, but...Hmm, how shall I say this?"
"Precisely. You're earnest."
"Unlike you."
"You are soft—'tis a compliment."
"So do you plan to help this little girl?"
"I do. The reason why is Miss Amalie. But..."
"But?"
"You heard, too, didn't you? The water mill catches fire almost every year."
"I cannot believe it so readily."
"To think that flower field catches fire every summer and becomes a sea of flames...'Tis unthinkable in the land we lived in."
"So the fire finally dies down around the river, but the nearby flames scorch the water mill, and it keeps falling apart. In the past, the houses would burn whenever there was a brush fire, and since they needed lots of lumber, all the surrounding forests became fields."
"'Tis quite wise they spaced their houses out to prevent them from all being killed at once."
"To make sure the reconstructed water mill stays around a long time, they would need to cut down as many of those flowers as possible before summer comes, but it's the busy season and the villagers don't want to help."
"No water mill means they would not have to go through the trouble, perhaps."
"Mr. Yergin said he could confiscate the hand mills by force, but they want to avoid that if possible. It would only cause problems later. So Miss Amalie went to them herself and was hoping the villagers would hand over the mills on their own."
"Hmm. But would it not be the same if you found and confiscated the mills in secret?"
"No. Mr. Yergin and Miss Amalie live here. But I'm a traveling merchant. It's the travelers who bring misfortune to villages. If we make it so that I was the one who put an idea into Miss Amalie's head, then I'll be the target of the villagers' resentment. And so when I leave, then the person who everyone hates simply disappears. I don't think Miss Amalie has thought of this, but it seems like Mr. Yergin is already well aware of how to best use me. That's probably why they've given us such a nice room."
"Don't make that face."
"Now that I have someone to share my burden with me on the driver's perch, what else do I need?"
"...Fool."
"Would you truly be able to find the mills, however? Should the time call for it, I may be able to find them by the scent of the wheat."
"If this is a contest of cunning, I won't lose, you know!"
"Perhaps you have mistaken it for shallow wit."
"You judge harshly."
"Well, it probably won't be very fun, so you don't have to come collect the mills if you don't want."
"I am quite fond of seeing your face blubbering with tears."
"Oh, I see we'll get along, then."
"Fool."
"Then I shall be watching how you work."
"What a gorgeous bottle. It's a lovely shade of green."
"It was my father's hobby, it seems. There are many things fashioned from glass in the basement of the manor... There are truly so many I thought maybe I could keep some and sell the rest and use that to cover the costs of the water mill, but..."
"If you forbade the use of the hand mills, however, you might solve the water mill problem for the time being."
"I've seen a similar thing happen somewhere else in the past. I am sure I can help you."
"You can?"
"Yes. Even in wide-open farming villages, there really aren't that many places to hide things."
"There's no need to worry. It is even worse to avoid paying taxes."
"The installation of the water mill is for the sake of the village, after all. Oh, and of course, I will not do anything that would trouble you, Lady Amalie. I can collect the hand mills."
"Oh, but you—"
"Of course, it would be difficult to carry the hand mills, so I wish to ask Mr. Yergin's assistance."
"Any time."
"And it is an unanticipated delight for a traveling merchant to help the lord of a land."
"The Draustem family will reward you for your services."
"Well then, let us go quickly after our meal."
"Lady Amalie?"
"...Yes, all right..."
"Pardon."
"We will be asking a fee for using the wagon."
"And the abbot from Ivan Abbey is relying on me. He's stingy and thinks of nothing but his abbey and is the kind who has never appropriately rewarded me for my troubles, for carrying his goods. But he said that Lady Amalie is likely in trouble and I should help her."
"I'm sure Lady Amalie will make a great landlord."
"It means it will be worth my while to help her."
"This—this is..."
"Oh, I don't mind if you stay where you are. I have received the right to collect taxes in the landlady's stead, so I have come to give notice."
"The right to collect taxes...Wait, but that is—"
"During the reign of the previous lord, there was a declaration that forbade the use of hand mills, yes? And so by that declaration, I have come to confiscate them."
"Is that so...? But as you can see, we are not sitting around a pile of hand mills. There are no places to hide them in a shack such as this."
"Indeed. Unlike town houses, the beams supporting the roofs are exposed, and so you cannot hide them in the ceiling. The floor is not made of boards but of packed earth. It would be obvious if you buried them in the ground, and of course, it would be difficult to dig them back up."
"So what about the fields? It would be easy to search them. One simply needs to poke the ground with a stick. And all the crops have already been planted for this season. There should be no large holes."
"I'm sure there are plenty of spaces to hide them in the backyards of the houses and on the roads to the fields, but one would be able to tell from far away by how the weeds grew if they were dug up. I'm sure it's possible to hide them in the field on the other side of the river, but I doubt anyone would be willing to carry a hand mill that far. Which means?"
"Inside the stove...which would mean the hand mills would be rather big. And the shaft would burn, too."
"Something that would always be included when building a house and difficult to tell if it has been turned over and somewhere that no one thinks to bother with."
"People are constantly passing through here, so the earth quickly hollows out."
"Even if we use the water mill, it will only burn in the wildfire..."
"I can assure you as a merchant...,"
"that having a water mill would be for the benefit of all the village."
"We managed it without force."
"Craftiness is a merchant's strength."
"The problem is Lady Amalie, correct?"
"She seems to be a bit too kind to be a landlord."
"...It is unthinkable that the people would be happy to pay taxes. Even if it is for their benefit."
"That hits a little close to home."
"Worse, she might run out of money to repair the water mill again. When that happens, she might have to resort to even harsher methods."
"Is there any other way?"
"I've done trade in many different towns, and I've seen taxes of every kind. I can think of quite a few."
"...So that really is our only choice."
"Well, there is the option of finding something that would make the villagers rich."
"...We are not merchants."
"Of course."
"With my knowledge of trade, I might be able..."
"Lady Amalie?"
"What is she doing?"
"Mm..."
"Y...young miss?"
"I thought you promised me you would not call me that anymore."
"These are the culprits, after all,"
"If there was a use for these flowers, then the villagers would be happy to cut them down, and we would be able to protect the water mill."
"And you are a traveling merchant, Mr. Lawrence. If a distant land has need for these flowers, then you will be able to go and sell them for us."
"Of course. If there are profits to be had."
"For now, why don't we try using it in cooking? I learned how to use fragrant grasses at the abbey. This flower has a nice scent, you know."
"If we place it on a thick beef shoulder steak, it may impart a nice flavor."
"What else?"
"Maybe submerging it in low-quality wine?"
"Perhaps we may be able to eat it as is?"
"That is the one thing I wish not to try again. Whether boiled or fried."
"And it must be too fragrant, because none of the sheep, cows, or pigs will eat it."
"It wouldn't be enough if we just sold them as decorations or fragrances for cooking."
"Then why don't we place the flower into a scented sachet? We did that often with the herbs we grew at the abbey."
"Scented sachets are a thing, and this flower does have a strong, sweet scent. But it certainly isn't something that sells a lot. I can't foresee anything like that could sell so much that it would make a difference."
"Even if we sell a little bit in one town, then why not sell in many towns?"
"It's possible the goods might get caught in the rain on the way, and dried-out petals would be light but a burden. The wagon bed is not that big. Selling just one tankard full at one town does not quite make for a lucrative business, and I can't imagine such a small amount will reduce the field."
"Then...all right. If they burn well, then why not use them as daily fuel?"
"There must be a reason why the villagers aren't already doing that."
"We would find ourselves in trouble if those flowers crossed the river and took root on this side as well. They are also a symbol of fire. To store those in our houses would prevent anyone from having a good night's sleep."
"I will think of something."
"If anything, I did a lot of thinking at the abbey."
"Young miss..."
"I thought I told you to stop calling me that,"
"I am now the head of this family."
"Then let us brainstorm."
"This feels like a dream."
"No good thing ever happens when you compliment me."
"You caught me."
"When they brew it, either the flowers are used as fuel or the scent simply hangs heavy in the village air."
"Hmm...Well, the wheat is not bad."
"But how useless it is."
"The purple flowers, you mean?"
"What else could be so good for nothing?"
"Well...There's the traveling merchant's cunning."
"You're going to spill that someday."
"'Tis a dream of mine to fall asleep soaked in liquor."
"That's silly. Come on."
"To think that I, once called the Wisewolf of Yoitsu, would ever fret so much over what to do with a flower..."
"If you could concoct amazing ideas for trading goods one after the other, I would have become the president of a company a long time ago."
"Fool. I would be saving the money, so 'twould all be mine."
"But flowers..."
"If only they were roses."
"Oh?"
"Townspeople use roses a lot in festivals and such, so you can sell them in bunches. People cover the roads with them when royalty and nobility come visit as well. And even farther south, businesses use them in expensive food and candies; they're really popular."
"Ohhh?"
"Apparently almond milk, rose water, and sugar are all necessities for noble banquets. And especially, when they mix them all together, it makes a thick and sweet soup that smells of flowers. Then you boil that with rice and drink it with raspberry cider after the meal. Or you can add ginger to make it refreshing and then boil with quail or duck. Those weakened by illness get better almost immediately after drinking this, I've heard."
"What's even more amazing is the candy from the countries with deep-blue seas, where more than half the year could be counted as summer."
"Even in hot countries, where they harvest dates, there are amazingly tall mountains that have ice hidden on their peaks all year round. In the boiling heat, the nobles send their servants up the mountainsides and have them cut out some ice. Then, they shave it with blades to make fluffy snow, mix it with sugar, then finally cover it in rose water, the skin of a tart fruit they call lemon boiled with honey, and honey itself."
"Then, when it's all cold, they eat it with a silver spoon. It makes a crunch inside their mouths, and the cold, tart honey rolls down their throat...Ow, ouch...Holo!"
"...We must...go south after this..."
"No. We are not."
"It's more expensive than honeyed peaches anyway, so we can't afford it in the first place."
"Ohhh..."
"Ouch, that hurts!"
"Sheesh, my clothes might rip..."
"But wait."
"What is it now?"
"There is ice in the north, as well as honey. Lemon, well...we must use another sort of fruit instead, and one may find sugar in port towns, aye?"
"If there were, then who would pay that much for it?"
"And rose water? It exists, yes? Is it also expensive?"
"What?"
"Which do you think is more valuable: the price of that rose water or whatnot or the warmth from my tail on cold nights, hmm?"
"All the wolf fur lined up in a market might not be able to buy a single drop of rose water."
"But do you know what it is you put on your tail?"
"...Huh?"
"The warmth of your tail is much more expensive than any rose water. So, so much more."
"You can't find the oil you use at an oil merchant's. It was from an apothecary. And it would be absolutely absurd to use it in cooking. But since you picked it out only by scent and bought it without looking at the price, and well, that simply shows how good your nose is. You managed to pick out the most expensive thing from the apothecary without a second thought."
"That is collected from the clear top layer that appears when rose water is made, and then it's diluted in different oil. Of course, there are tales of a tyrant of a large empire from long ago who gave it as gift to a princess, but it didn't compare to undiluted, refined oil pressed from even a single rose petal. According to legend, after using as many flower petals that equaled the weight of ten fat horses, the tyrant finally managed to fill a small vial the size of the tip of his pinkie. But even the perfumed oil that you use would need a wagonful of..."
"Full of..."
"...Hello?"
"A wagonful?"
"Fwa?!"
"O-oh, my tail...You're so violent—"
"This is it! This is the answer!"
"You...fool!"
"This could be something amazing!"
"And it'll be useful for the maintenance of your tail!"
"W-wait, wait, you!"
"Come on—what are you doing? Let's go!"
"We can help these people and make a fortune, too!"
"Something like this?"
"And then, into this glass bottle..."
"And now I will light it."
"And...so?"
"Once it starts boiling, the steam will seep into the glass bottle. Then, we chill it with water."
"It won't be long now...Look."
"This is how the steam will cool and become water."
"There is more and more water..."
"Is that...oil...on the water surface?"
"It looks like it's a success."
"It will be my job to endlessly carry on this work now."
"Whoa."
"What a smell!"
"...Incredible."
"It will take a lot of flowers to make perfumed oil, but that's not a problem here. And an apothecary will dilute such a strong perfume with oil before quickly selling it off. A traveling merchant like myself only needs a bit of the original oil in a small vial. It would be fine in the rain and wouldn't put too much pressure on my wagon."
"The only problem is..."
"...once you finish working on this, whatever you eat that night will smell sweet."
"This wise traveler has shared splendid wisdom with us. Now, we must overcome this challenge that God has given us and make this field of flowers our boon!"
"Oh."
"How about it? Aren't you impressed with my cunning?"
"Guh?!"
"'Tis the grudge for my tail, you fool."
"Augh..."
"I shall never, ever forget that you mussed up my tail."
"N-no, wait—"
"And so..."
"...from now on, you must maintain my tail as finely as you possibly can. You have now earned the goodwill of this land's ruler and stand to make quite the fortune, aye?"
"Wha—? No, we don't even know if it'll sell..."
"Oh, do you not wish to continue sleeping in warmth at night?"
"...Okay."
"I must clean out your wallet regularly, after all."
"..."
"Mr. Lawrence, there is no doubt that you are a gift from God!"
"I'm nothing of the sort. If anything, I'm more like a sacrifice for someone who was once called a god...,"
"'Tis the pleasure of the merchant-sort to help others."
"Now I remember. Myuri wasn't at all interested in this little vial."
"While it may smell nice, and while it is sweet, it cannot be eaten, after all."
"That fool was much more interested in hiding the hand mill. 'Tis why it may be hiding in a place that does not occur to us."
"That reminds me of a certain someone..."
"Yes, of you, how you are obsessed with treasure and how you try stuff as much as you can in that purse of yours."
"No, I'm thinking of someone who will pick out the best piece of jerky from a bag of rations and hide it for later."
"No, you fool."
"Oh ho. It seems there are things even the wisewolf doesn't know."
"I surely know much more than you!"
"Ah..."
"Broootheeer!"
"Brotheeer!"
"brother"
"I'm in the bath!"
"There you are! Brother!!"
"Brother! Look, look! Look at this! Isn't it cool?!"
"Myuri, if you run like that—"
"Huh?"
"..."
"Pwah!"
"Myuri, what on earth have you—?"
"Brother! Don't just stand there!"
"Hey...Stay still!"
"Ah, ah, it's gonna get away, it's gonna—Eek!"
"Myuri!"
"It is not funny. We were lucky that there are no guests here during this season."
"What, with fish in the bath, it shall save us some time when we must collect snacks to go with our drink, will it not?"
"And so where has that fool gone?"
"Mr. Lawrence scolded her, so now she should be cutting firewood."
"Hmm?"
"Is something the matter?"
"Mm. 'Tis much too quiet for woodcutting."
"Mr. Lawrence should be watching over her..."
"My dear husband had plenty of drink. He may very well be sleeping."
"I'll go check."
"Mm. Ah, while you're gone, please place the raisins in water."
"Raisins?"
"'Tis a gift from someone who had traveled south. They were given to us at the meeting. They are quite sweet eaten as they are, but I was told after steeping them overnight in water, using that water in bread dough will make for a very sweet and delicious bread."
"Little Col, you are fond of sweets, are you not? 'Tis well to sample some before putting them in the water. I grant you permission in my name."
"Thank you. I'll try some."
"Go ahead."
"...Mr. Lawrence."
"Ngh,"
"But where has she gone?"
"She's in the baths?"
"...How many times do I have to tell her not to throw her clothes everywhere before she'll stop...?"
"Come on, you can do it!"
"Ah-ha-ha-ha! Mm?"
"Myuri...Wh-what are...?"
"Ah-ha-ha, Brother! Just in time!"
"See, see, Brother? Look at that!"
"Wh-what are you doing? And are those the raisins that were a gift for Miss Holo and Mr. Lawrence?"
"Eh-heh-heh. Do you want some?"
"Myuri!"
"Come on, Brother, stop being so loud."
"No, tell me what that is."
"That? They said they wanted to have some raisins, so I said that whoever wins the fight can have some."
"...A fight?"
"Yeah. No biting or scratching. I don't want them getting hurt. The one that falls into the water first loses."
"N-no, if you make those two bears fight..."
"Hey, if you wish to have these, you shall show me your strength!"
"Ready...Fight!"
"Hey, Brother?"
"Brother."
"Brother, who do you think will win?"
"I'm sorry that it's always like this...Col."
"I don't think Myuri means any harm, but...I don't think she knows when to stop..."
"N-no, it's not..."
"Well...I suppose...just a little..."
"But, I swear, where on earth has she run off to on her own?"
"If she only behaved a little better, then there would be no cuter daughter..."
"Dear."
"dear,"
"Come take a look at the fire on the stove. I do not know how strong it must be."
"Ah...Miss Hanna isn't back yet?"
"'Tis a good season. Well, perhaps 'tis well she stretches her wings once in a while."
"But the fire, dear."
"Ah, um."
"Please, go ahead."
"Sorry. I'll be right back."
"I have some prepared for you, too, little Col. Look forward to it for me."
"Broootheeer!"
"Guh?!"
"Brother!"
"Hey, hey, Brother! Listen, listen!"
"..."
"So! I found something really cool in the forest! You'll be so surprised, Brother! So, like, let me take you into the forest, and we'll get your—"
"Um...ah, Bro...ther?"
"Myuri."
"S...so, yeah? I'll...take you to the forest, okay?"
"That's enough."
"I have work to do."
"I need to lift more stones, so please move."
"..."
"..."
"If you are not planning to help, then go back to your room."
"Oh, your stomach is quite on time."
"I could tell from where the sun is in the sky."
"You have always been the logical sort, little Col."
"Please stop calling me 'little.'"
"No matter how much time passes, you are all the same as children."
"Why do you insist that you are not children, then quarrel so?"
"Quarrel?"
"My charming little daughter has been crying. If you were not as good as one of my own, little Col, then I would bite your head off."
"Er, but, well..."
"I know the situation. Bears that Myuri stirred up broke the island in the bath, and while you were fixing it, the girl left to run about in the mountains. Well, it is quite right that even my mild and fair dear would grow angry."
"Hmm. Well, if you do not understand, then I must continue calling you 'little.'"
"Myuri is most certainly a tomboy, but she is no fool."
"That's...right."
"And she adores you."
"Of course, I feel the same about her as well. She is very important to me. Which is why I want her to know composure and discretion."
"Hmph."
"Both males in this family cloud their vision obsessing over things that do not matter."
"M-Miss Holo?"
"Myuri cried herself hoarse, and now she sleeps from exhaustion. I shall be holding on to your raisin bread until you two make up."
"Sorry."
"...Aghh, I get it..."
"Wah!"
"Hello, Kalm."
"Oh, it's Col. Hello. Where's Myuri? We've been waiting for her at home, but she hasn't showed up."
"Myuri? Umm..."
"Do you have a playdate with Myuri?"
"Yes. We were going into the forest. Dadd...Father was going to come with us, so I finished helping him, got ready, and waited."
"father,"
"So! I found something really cool in the forest! You'll be so surprised, Brother!"
"really cool"
"So, like, let me take you into the forest, and we'll get your—"
"Well, since Myuri was the one who found it, could you tell her that she'll get her share, even if she doesn't come with us? Other people might take it if they find it before us, so we have to go quickly."
"I went out to look quite a bit, though I can't match what the adults can do. But Myuri is fine going places adults are too scared to go, so she found something insane."
"Um, what was it that Myuri found in the mountains?"
"Oh, she didn't tell you?"
"An insanely huge beehive. Then, she came to Father because she wanted him to make some mead."
"Kalm."
"Yes?"
"Would it be all right if I went instead?"
"You'll get stung a lot, though."
"...You are looking quite handsome."
"Where's Myuri?"
"In her room. That carefree girl is still moping about. It was surely quite a weight for her to bear, yes?"
"It seems you have done your part, however."
"Oh, Miss Holo, there's a favor I'd like to ask of you."
"Mm? What might that be?"
"I'd like you to taste this for me."
"'Twould be my pleasure."
"Myuri?"
"..."
"Myuri."
"Come on, cheer up now."
"...You're the one who's mad."
"I'm not angry anymore."
"Will you show me your face?"
"..."
"...Bro...ther?"
"What is it?"
"...I'm...sorry."
"B-but, you know, um, I, um—"
"Myuri."
"Miss Holo told me about it earlier, but your voice really is terrible."
"..."
"I brought medicine. It will be good for your throat."
"..."
"Miss Holo helped me. She has given her guarantee for its flavor."
"Mm. Delicious."
"Do you want any?"
"...Yes."
"Th-this—"
"B-b-brother, your face..."
"I did not expect that taking down a beehive would be such a hassle."
"How is the medicine, by the way? This is squeezed juice of ginger added to honey, then mixed with a bit of wine. I've heard that royal songstresses have this when they catch colds."
"It's good."
"That's good."
"I want more."
"Oh, but if I have too much, you won't..."
"It's all right. A waterfall of honey came out of the beehive. And as there is both honey and wine in this, if we leave it too long, it will become alcohol. Eat it quickly."
"...I wanna try the alcohol one."
"You may not."
"Brother, you dummy."
"I'm sorry."
"What is it?"
"Myuri, do I need to lecture you again?"
"It wasn't a prank. I heard that the fastest way to heal beestings is to suck out the poison. It's a cure!"
"I tried it with my arms and stuff, but..."
"I was stung here, too."
"This is medicine from Mr. Cyrus. He said it works very well."
"Sheesh, Brother, you don't understand anything!"
"I do, too. I see through all of your tricks."
"Boo!"
"Honey!"
"Do you want more?"
"Yeah!"
"Come now, you fool. Have you not woken yet?"
"I don't mind if you drive the wagon. You've sat next to me and watched me hold the reins for years, haven't you?"
"I am Holo the Wisewolf of Yoitsu. Such a prideful wolf would not deign to grasp the reins of a horse."
"...Then, hold on a little bit. My back hurts..."
"Hah..."
"And this is the result of a male's hard work."
"Was the festival in that town not several days ago now? How pathetic it is that you sit all day in the driver's perch and then cannot move from back pain."
"H-hey, you can't seriously plan on eating all that at...ow, ow..."
"Stay where you are, fool. I shall enjoy this by myself."
"Honestly..."
"This reminds me of the past."
"Do you want to go traveling again?"
"You fool. Of course not."
"I am fond of where I soak in hot water every day. The place you created."
"Soaking in hot water might cure my back pain."
"Of course. And the nights are still cold. I would enjoy not camping outside."
"It would be awful if I got sick, too. There's so much to do to get ready for summer, and we have new help coming. We have to prepare her room and think about how we're going to divide up the work. We have to get home and start...Hmm? What's wrong?"
"'Tis nothing."
"What, you're still not satisfied?"
"Whatever could you be speaking of?"
"Seriously..."
"A young girl coming to us now doesn't mean anything."
"Fool. I am not worried about that."
"...And what is it you are grinning about?"
"Anyway, when Miss Selim arrives, the busy season of summer will already be waiting. There's no time to think about anything else."
"..."
"'Tis not what I worry about."
"Fool."
"Thank God for his guidance! Hello there, traveler!"
"I am Horad the shepherd!"
"I am a traveling mer—Ahem. I am Nyohhira bathhouse master Kraft Lawrence! What is it you need?!"
"I sincerely believe that meeting you here, Master Lawrence, is due to God's guidance! If you would have pity on me, then would you be so kind as to offer us a lift to Svernel?!"
"We are actually just coming from Svernel and now returning north!"
"Oh...I see..."
"Is something the matter?!"
"Truth be told, my partner here stepped on a sharp rock and cannot walk!"
"That's..."
"Holo."
"We might have to camp outside..."
"If 'tis cold, you shall make it warm for me, aye?"
"If you drink yourself to sleep, I'll even take care of you afterward."
"Hmph."
"Mr. Horad!"
"We'll help you!"
"Thank you!"
"Should I take you to town?!"
"Well, I was just thinking about that. Even if you spent the whole night and then some bringing me to town, I wouldn't be able to repay you!"
"Instead, do you think you could look after my sheep for a bit?!"
"Your sheep?"
"I suddenly remembered I have a friend just over there!"
"I know a charcoal maker who should be in a charcoal-making hut during this season! I'll go leave my partner with him, so could I ask you to watch over my sheep until I come back?!"
"All right, then!"
"May God bless you, Master Lawrence."
"Oh, no worries. We were planning to stay parked here for a while anyway."
"That's..."
"From far away, I was sure you had a servant boy with you, but...How rude of me to interrupt..."
"Ah no, you misunderstand. We were just in Svernel participating in the Festival of the Dead, and we were resting here because I've injured my back."
"By the way, Mr. Horad."
"You don't think I might run away with your sheep?"
"It's strange, but watching sheep every day has, for some reason, given me the ability to weigh people."
"Besides, the road is muddy and the forest still has snow everywhere. There is still a clean layer of it on the field over there. At least until spring comes, I'd be able to follow you anywhere, Master Lawrence."
"Well then, I'll keep a sharp eye on your sheep. Do you need water? We have wine, as well."
"Thank you so much. I'll just have some water."
"Well, we'll be off. It is not that far, so even if the sheep start disappearing, I'll be right back."
"If the charcoal maker is not in or I can't find him, then I will take that as a sign from God to take you up on the offer to go to Svernel."
"Well, then."
"It's only for a short time, but how am I supposed to keep all these sheep together...?"
"Ooof...Damn, I swear."
"You are quite infuriating."
"Huh?"
"I am not a fool who simply eats and sleeps. What am I to you?"
"My cute wife who I am very proud of."
"You are a fool."
"I probably am."
"What is it? What's wrong?"
"My tail will get muddied! There should be clothes for my tail somewhere!"
"Ho! Come now! There shall be no running!"
"You...foolish...!"
"Hah...hah..."
"Holo, are you okay?"
"Ooohhh...Why do they not listen!"
"Perhaps I should show you how frightening I can truly be?"
"Calm down,"
"......Ngh!"
"Freeze!"
"Holo."
"I—I...am not...a good-for-nothing."
"I've never thought of you like that. So what's...?"
"No matter how hard Selim works, you can drink as much as you want right by the hearth."
"The reason I don't scold you for sleeping in every day, going to the kitchen to eat four, five times a day, and grooming your tail whenever you have the chance is because I know you have your own proper work to do."
"I'm sorry, I hadn't noticed."
"Sniff...I—I must watch over the sheep."
"I'm okay."
"That's true, but...they're all running away."
"Here, let me see the staff. You have your majesty as a wolf, so you don't need this."
"...That dog can do this, so...why...?"
"Isn't that simply the skill of a professional? Even if the sheepdog is a dog."
"It really is strange. I thought it would be impossible to watch over it all from the wagon bed. But if that sheepdog had a good leg, then his line of sight would be lower than most of the sheep, and yet he can still brilliantly keep the flock together."
"Hey, Holo."
"Fools!"
"I found it! 'Tis you!"
"Heh."
"Sometimes, we simply need to change our perspective."
"Because for the longest time, I have been gazing at only one sheep. But no matter."
"I've got it easy. I only ever need to look at just one wolf."
"I shall not forgive your looking at other wolves."
"Of course not."
"You think you'll be okay with bringing on Selim?"
"I'm sure you'll get along."
"You fool."
"I am not a child."
"Well then, let's go home."
"Mm."
"Lady Holo."
"Mm-hmm...I cannot believe you saw that."
"Sir Lawrence said you were surely sleeping and to wake you up..."
"What?"
"Hahh...Ahh. Apologies...I shan't grow sleepy in this season."
"And what is it you need?"
"Yes. It's nearly lunchtime, so I've come to get you."
"Mm. That time already. Tell them I shall be there soon."
"Very well."
"Lady Holo, has a leaf or the sort hurt you?"
"Hurt me?"
"Ah well, I can smell blood..."
"Oh, this."
"Lady Holo, please don't. Please wait a moment. I'll bring some fire,"
"...What a fool. The new girl need not go so far."
"You must eat a lot for lunch to make up for what was drained away."
"Well then, I will go ahead and take these to dry."
"Thank you."
"Well, 'tis time for lunch."
"How is Miss Selim?"
"She is quite different from what I imagined."
"Hmm?"
"Do you mean that in a good way? Or a bad way?"
"A good way, mostly."
"And the rest, what I had imagined in a bad way was wrong in a good way."
"Wrong in a good...what? What does that mean?"
"Really, I was expecting a bit more."
"That means..."
"You are managing this much better than I expected, and I cannot even foresee the Q in quarrel anywhere."
"What...? That means there's no problems now, right?"
"Hmm. I thought that I may be able to be unfriendly with you for the first time in a long time."
"Wouldn't you prefer we didn't fight?"
"'Tis much more stimulating to add pepper to meat or drink, no? We lived quietly while Myuri was around, but now she is no longer here."
"I swear..."
"Does it seem like we'll be able to open the bathhouse?"
"Miss Selim will do enough work. She can handle it. It'll be much easier, since she's not the mischievous Myuri, who creates double the work after finishing one job."
"That foolish girl truly is nothing but pranks. I know not who she takes after."
"But for that, it seems the liveliness in this house will die down. Are you all right with that?"
"I'm worried about that, too. We don't have Col, either, who chatted with all the high-ranking clergymen... When I think about that, I can't deny that what once attracted the guests to our bathhouse has disappeared."
"'Tis because you can talk of nothing but trade."
"I wouldn't mind if you started singing and dancing, you know."
"Well, it would just be trouble if you did that on top of your regular work. But I do want to see it."
"I may as well stick with being particular about food."
"Food, huh? You do have some opinions about food."
"Hanna may not be so happy to hear she would get more work."
"We lost one person stealing snacks, so maybe you can make up for that."
"But it really is quiet without Myuri around."
"I hope they haven't gotten in trouble where they are..."
"Had a letter not just recently come?"
"That's true, but..."
"Have you forgotten who sits by your side?"
"Yeah. You're always by my side."
"Mm. 'Twould be best for your health to forget about your daughter after she has gone off to be wed."
"Sh-she's not getting married!"
"See here. I shan't be going anywhere. However, if you carelessly let go, I may be blown away by the wind."
"Do you not think so?"
"As you say, madam."
"Eh-heh."
"Dear, be gentle with me—"
"You...fool......hmm?"
"...Hmm...?"
"But...'twas quite a vivid dream I had..."
"...No, 'twas not a dream. That happened yesterday for...hmm?"
"every day."
"..."
"...What a fool..."
"What a fool I am."
"If you're looking for the master, he's out front."
"We'll be eating lunch soon."
"I am sorry..."
"Don't worry about it. It's my fault for not telling you."
"What are you doing?"
"Oh, hey. Perfect timing. Can you help us?"
"Help?"
"I, um...used the wrong string to tie the fodder together..."
"Hmm. Should I undo everything?"
"No, just tie it with new string. And there's some three-strand twine mixed in there, too, so take those off as well."
"How bothersome."
"Oh, mm, 'twas not meant for you. I, too, make this mistake often,"
"I'm sorry..."
"Do you think you could help me with Miss Selim?"
"Help?"
"Can you think of an excuse to take her into the mountains?"
"Take her out saying you're going to find new springs or something, and could you bring her to the other side of the mountains while you're at it?"
"Have her visit her family, you mean?"
"Yeah."
"Is the girl not right in the middle of getting used to her new pack? Would having them meet after such a short time not only bring her and her friends' resolution into question?"
"Logically, that makes sense."
"Dear, I am serious—"
"I was once a traveling merchant. I've carried people who lived far away from their family and friends many times. So many people did nothing but complain when they sat in the back of the wagon. 'I don't want to see them,' 'I can't meet them now after all this time,' 'They'll pummel me when they see me,' and on and on."
"But when they finally did meet, they were always happy. That's not logical."
"You know this."
"And it might be a problem that Miss Selim's brothers are so close."
"...Hmm?"
"They're probably thinking along the same lines as you. Once they decide on something, they'll absolutely carry it out. And then, seeing how near they are, it will only make it harder for them. And because they're so close, they probably imagine they shouldn't just hop over to visit one another—that it would be weak and pathetic."
"Mm-hmm...And so...you mean to say...'tis different?"
"I know Miss Selim is trying her best to be a member of this house. But any newcomer will always feel helpless. But on the other hand, do you remember Selim's brother's face when he saw her off? He was practically sick with worry. If you bring her to him, there's no chance he would be cruel to her. He would encourage and comfort her. It would help her a hundred times more than us saying anything. She has someone like that not too far away, so why doesn't she go see him?"
"Hmm? What's wrong?"
"You are such a fool, such a foolish man."
"Huh?"
"Hmm...Regarding your idea, I do not mind, but there are still humans about in the mountains during this time of year. Would you mind if we left once night fell?"
"Oh, of course not. We have work during the day anyway."
"You fool. 'Tis not the question."
"I am asking if you do not feel lonely sleeping alone at night?"
"What? When you come home, you know how grateful I'll be."
"Heh-heh. Very well, then."
"I wish I had your fur."
"We shall return before dawn."
"Make sure the charcoal makers and whatnot don't get a good look at you."
"Fool."
"...Ahem. Well, shall we be off?"
"Yes."
"Be safe."
"Sorry. Am I going too fast?"
"N-no...ah, um, yes..."
"We shall go slowly. 'Tis the first chance in a long time I have had to run, so I could not help but frolic like a pup."
"Well, should you get lost, you shall be able to return by scent, aye?"
"Lady Holo."
"Hmm?"
"Um...I'm...sorry..."
"Why do you apologize? You have followed me this far, have you not?"
"How admirable for you to come greet her."
"Look."
"Do you wish for our kindness to be in vain?"
"I do not know how many times I clung to that companion of mine in tears at times like this."
"Thank you."
"'Tis what you must say to my foolish companion."
"Hmm. 'Tis in a nice spot, but a bit small."
"If there is a spring here, then there must be others."
"Lady Holo?"
"What is it? Are you finished already?"
"Yes. And, um..."
"And what do you need from me, standing there so quietly?"
"I am sorry my sister has caused you such trouble."
"She is not any trouble at all. Selim is a hard worker."
"But she is in your care now. For you to indulge her so—"
"Are you saying this is a point of honor for your bloodline?"
"...With all due respect."
"On my companion's orders, I am simply here to search for new springs. Since we have come so close to her home, we merely took the opportunity to pay a visit along the way."
"B-but—"
"So we may come to visit occasionally. There is no need for such drastic good-byes. I shan't mind if you take your time when we come."
"...As you wish."
"Good. Then shall we soon call it a day?"
"Ah, I forgot to mention."
"You shall not dig up this spring without my knowing. Let me do as I please."
"..."
"Or is this water you found?"
"N-no."
"Then I shall be using this for a while."
"Lady Holo."
"Thank you."
"I do not mind as I also have found something to look forward to. But you must sleep now or else work tomorrow will be a pain."
"Urrghhh...Welcome back."
"I'm home."
"Hello! Is the master in?"
"Abbot Harivel will be arriving tomorrow morning. Is everything in order?"
"We've been waiting for you. Everything is prepared."
"What is it?"
"Hmm? Oh no, it just feels like he's a bit early this year."
"Early? Perhaps he simply could not wait."
"That would be nice, but..."
"Oh, Sir Lawrence. Thank you for having me again this year."
"Is your daughter out hunting now?"
"Well..."
"Oh, that's exactly it! That's what it is!"
"Erm...Father? Why not come inside for now? You must be tired after your journey."
"Ah yes, you have my thanks. But oh, I had wondered if that was the case when I heard the rumors, but oh my..."
"You've hired a new girl, I see. Thank you."
"The young priest I've heard so much about from the Kingdom of Winfiel who's causing the commotion is Mr. Col, then."
"He's translated the scripture into the vernacular, forced an indulgent archbishop to repent, and even had the stubborn folk from the rural areas, who are sometimes under suspicion of heresy, awaken to a new, righteous faith. Oh, I'll be, when I first met him, he was still only this big!"
"Is...Col causing problems for you?"
"Oh no, of course not. If there are those who feel like he's causing problems, it means they must also be ashamed of themselves."
"I must say, however."
"It is certain that many people heeded their conscience and followed the teachings of God. Even I, who is still unknown, think so, even though my discipline is not perfect. That being said, that does not mean there are no problems."
"O-oh."
"This is Nyohhira, hot spring village. Everything you see and hear here disappears like the mist when you descend from the mountain. You think so, too, Sir Lawrence. And so, I pray a favor from you."
"...Are they...permits?"
"Indeed. This includes our monastery, our daughter monastery, grandchild monastery, and their daughter monastery."
"These permits are...well, they certainly seem like too much for us if you look closely. God commands us to share what we have. There are also Mr. Col's activities, and I've heard there is now the tendency to re-recognize God's true teachings, and..."
"In other words, you wish to lift a weight from your shoulders?"
"Yes! That's right! To lift a weight! Why, thank you, Master Lawrence!"
"However, these were permits supplied by our monastery and our dependent institutions, originally for the salvation of our souls. We cannot just simply give them up, either...But then, I remembered that you were once a famous merchant, Master Lawrence..."
"So you wish for me to give this to someone who needs this the most?"
"Oh, God! Bless this wise bathhouse master!"
"Is this similar to what you once had?"
"It's similar, but...ours was not as fancy as this."
"And of course, I will look into the contents of these permits and see if they may be of any use."
"Thank you so much."
"So may I go ahead into the baths?"
"Can you read?"
"...Anyway, there are much too many."
"That fool is having far too much fun."
"I am sorry for having you help us."
"Oh no...I am sorry I have not been much help..."
"I do not mind. You have enough work during the day. I only ask you help occasionally. Were you to be enthusiastic about this, I would earn more work as well."
"But I'm learning a lot. I can truly feel how large the world is."
"Hmm? I heard you all were once in a town so far south that my companion had never even heard of it."
"It was the sort of journey where we ate the grass on the side of the road, captured wild rabbits, and merely walked along while staring down at our feet. We couldn't think of anything but putting our right foot out, then our left foot next. When we arrived at the northlands from the south, the only thing we noticed was that the color of the roads was slightly different."
"I, too, spent all my years looking at a similar sight."
"The smell of sharpened metal unsettles me."
"Oh, 'tis bear today."
"We wished to exist peacefully together, but..."
"At the very least, please enjoy his meat and use everything, down to the bone. May we have the tools? We'll handle the bear, as always."
"Mm-hmm. Thank you."
"It might spring up all at once if I dig somewhere."
"Do even your claws come up empty-handed, Lady Holo?"
"If the flow of water has always been weak, then digging it up will create nothing but a lukewarm puddle."
"Lady Holo, it's all finished."
"Then put it in the sack. Should I carry it back in my mouth, it may disappear before we arrive."
"Because it is quite greasy. Understood."
"Ah, be sure to take your own portion. Game is to be enjoyed by all."
"...Holo? Lady Holo?"
"Mm."
"Apologies. I was thinking."
"About the bath? If so, then we can search the mountains for you."
"There is no need. I simply wish to fool around with my claws and fangs once in a while. Digging holes and such."
"Is that so?"
"Well then, we shall return home before it gets too late. You have work tomorrow as well, no?"
"Oh, may I ask one thing?"
"What is it?"
"Do you have any requests for the next hunt? This time was unusual in that it was bear, but we were wondering if you tire of the usual deer."
"Let me see."
"No, I am fine with deer. My companion is also quite grateful he does not have to order any deliveries."
"Very well."
"We were wondering if you tire of the usual deer."
"Oh, welcome back."
"Hmm? What's wrong?"
"You're really cold. You going to take a dip in the baths before going to sleep?"
"...Mm. You smell quite sour."
"Huh?"
"So, the baths, yes?"
"Ooohhh...Nngh. Hahhh...I used to be able to work all night long once."
"We have received bear meat from Selim's friends. Why not use that for energy?"
"Oh, bear, huh? I don't know when it was, but I heard that the best part of a bear is its paw. I wonder if that's true."
"The paw? How does one eat that?"
"Are you in a fight with the Sir?"
"F-for what reason do you ask?"
"Your plucking is a bit sloppy."
"...We are not fighting."
"More importantly, there is a pile of bear meat in the middle of the ice room. Please add plenty of meat to the pot today."
"Do not say anything odd to him. We are not fighting, after all."
"Okay, very well. Understood."
"Oh, would you prefer garlic or ginger in the pot today?"
"Garlic."
"Come now, I have come to help. Go breathe some fresh air and take a rest."
"Lady Hol...Guh, cough, cough—"
"Hmm...Once the candles are done, next is checking on the rest of the cheese."
"And then...ah yes. Once we order the cheese, I must braid thread from the wool we received. Then I must mend all the frayed ones, like that and that and that...Ah! Foolish Myuri lost the weights for the threads, did she not?! Were there replacements in the shed...? Oh yes...I must clean the shed, otherwise bugs will start breeding by summer...'Tis only the bugs that do not listen to me...What should I do about that? Oohh..."
"I must do something about this..."
"Mmm..."
"Well, soon we shall strain this and make the candles."
"What is the matter?"
"Before you get mad, let me apologize."
"...Hmm?"
"The new guest also brought in parchment."
"Is that all?"
"...Others staying elsewhere came over earlier, wanting to talk about the same thing."
"..."
"Well, we have no choice. Aye?"
"What? Did you wish for me to get angry?"
"There won't be any time for you to take a nap..."
"You fool."
"And we may make quite a lot of quick coin, no?"
"It should be enough for our troubles. Ask me for anything. We can probably get honeyed peaches."
"Mm. I shall think about it."
"But there aren't infinite amounts of money."
"Well then, shall we get started?"
"Yeah. We can't even waste time this late in the day. If we don't manage this well, even more of the same work might come our way."
"Shall we allot some to Selim?"
"I'd want her to help, but..."
"She doesn't really seem like she's good at reading and writing."
"She works hard during the day, so she's probably tired at night."
"But when we go to trade on the other side of the mountain, she is never that sleepy."
"It's probably a matter of her strengths and weaknesses, right? She probably gets sleepy looking at writing. Myuri's the same."
"I am as good as anyone when it comes to this."
"That's not much to be proud of. Well, you can read, but when it comes to writing...Don't you think the Wisewolf of Yoitsu should be a bit better at writing?"
"I have improved quite a bit. This form of mine is temporary anyway. 'Tis not much I can do if my hands do not work well."
"Even though you can grab meat so quickly from the pot?"
"You fool. Learning letters does not fill the stomach!"
"...Myuri says the same thing, doesn't she?"
"I beg your pardon?!"
"Look, come on, let's get working."
"Honestly, you fool."
"Good work today."
"...Wine, how unusual."
"Hmm, this is...?"
"It's a gift from a guest. The Sir told me to serve some for you when he went out."
"...You hid this from me?"
"He said you might end up eating it all if I showed it to you once."
"That fool!"
"'Tis ginger?!"
"It's still cold when the sun isn't out, so it will also warm you up."
"Mm-hmm...Mmm..."
"Is this all?"
"He said to make sure to give only a little bit at a time."
"C-come now, it may go bad if we do not eat it quickly, aye?"
"Sweets don't spoil so quickly."
"Then bugs and mice—"
"These will be fine buried in the ice room."
"Ooohhh..."
"Why not eat it slowly? You'll be able to enjoy it longer that way."
"You fool. I may also enjoy it all at once!"
"Put it away..."
"My, how prudent of you. Very well then, I will go put this away before you change your mind."
"Ah!"
"Let me just say this now, but I am going to hide this in a place you can't find, so don't come looking for it."
"You fool."
"I am not a fool. I would not be happy to find my pantry in complete disarray because you went looking for it. I will put a tight lid on this, so even that great nose of yours will be no use."
"Urgghhh..."
"I am working so hard, and yet such cruelty..."
"Well, I don't know about that, but I heard that it will be of great help once you finish all that work you are doing. Once that's squared away, you can ask for sugar or anything else you'd like."
"Of course I plan to. But I do not know when it will be over."
"But what does that fool plan to do with all that money he will be making?"
"Well, let us begin!"
"...Heh."
"...Is the human world just a bottomless swamp?"
"You've gotten the hang of how the world works. Look, there's only a little left."
"Look, it's a permit for managing furs in Lenos,"
"Huh, I didn't know there were rights for managing the dockworkers in Kerube,"
"There's a permit for importing gold in Ruvinheigen. We wouldn't have had to go through all that trouble back then if only we had this."
"Since this town and this town protect the privileges between them for that product...You could make a lot of money if you buy it in that town...Heh-heh..."
"If you wish to go on a journey again, I—"
"..."
"...'Tis nothing."
"I'm not going on a journey."
"Hey."
"You've been hiding something from me, haven't you? Ever since Selim came."
"Whatever do you mean?"
"I know."
"Because you're my wife."
"...Fool."
"But you really did seem to be in a good mood, so I honestly wasn't sure what it could be. You were getting along well with Miss Selim. If I wasn't careful and bothered you about it, you looked like you would get really angry at me, so I didn't say anything."
"..."
"..."
"It feels like things have gotten stale since Myuri and Col left."
"Are you bored of life here?"
"No, of—"
"I do not know..."
"I've come to notice lately how old I've gotten, but you're still young."
"...Huh?"
"That's what I thought when I was watching Myuri—so that's what it means to be young. And that it wouldn't be surprising if a certain someone who is like a mature wolf got bored of life in the bathhouse, too."
"That's..."
"I have not grown bored. Not at all."
"Did the wolves all show off together? What was it like with Miss Selim?"
"I have not grown bored with life in the bathhouse."
"Mm-hmm."
"And?"
"I am used to repeating routine. I...I once watched the wheat grow for hundreds of years, after all."
"I am happy now. So happy."
"However...Nothing changes from day to day. Tomorrow will be the same as today, and the day after that will be the same as tomorrow, and what happened last month is the same as what happened that month last year, and next month will be the same as that month next year, aye? 'Tis even more obvious now after that fool Myuri and little Col are gone."
"If I were to let myself surrender to this happiness, all these precious days will melt away in my memory... Though the wisewolf I may be, I cannot remember everything. I have grown terrified of that. Because..."
"Because..."
"I can't stay by your side forever."
"Even after we're gone, you should go live in the inn that Selim's family runs...It's insurance, at least. Cargo you lose won't always come back."
"I know that. So I've thought about a lot of things on my own. I didn't say anything because you'd get mad if I did, but I'm always thinking about all the things I can leave for you."
"But you're a lonely person, the kind to fall asleep during the day clinging to a balled-up blanket. You definitely need something to keep yourself from shivering in the cold."
"Hah?! I—I—I was not..."
"And, well, I had an idea, and am working hard on it, but thanks to Col and Myuri, that plan looks like it'll be accelerated."
"...Hmm?"
"I see...Then...then why did you decide to undertake this work? It has been bothering me. Do you simply wish to save money? What will you do with all that money?"
"I can't bring gold into heaven, you know."
"It can't be...for me?"
"Even if I left you money, wouldn't you just turn every coin into booze as you cry all by your lonesome or show no interest in it at all and instead crawl into a field of wheat?"
"Wh—? You—"
"Well, I do want to leave some money for the earthier Myuri, though."
"That's why I want to leave you something that you would never let go, even when you're dozing in the sun or curled up around a blanket on a cold, quiet night. Well..."
"I wanted to do that. It's been busy, and I'm not really used to it..."
"It was a book."
"...A book?"
"You said it a long time ago. Tell the beautiful tale of your journey with me."
"But there's only so much word of mouth can do. Just look at this pile of permits. The world is full of things that can't fit inside one person's head."
"Everyday life is the same. If you look closely, there are small differences among similar days, and sometimes, those little things can be really enjoyable. Like when that leech stuck to your wrist."
"I thought it would be a good idea to write all those things down. Remember, you read a lot of things like that in Elsa's library, at the church in the village that worshipped the snake god?"
"I wanted to write with as much detail as I could. Something others might not understand if they read it but that only you would enjoy. And then you can look back later and see that yesterday and today—last year and this year— really were different, right?"
"M-mm...'Tis...true..."
"But that said, I've been writing a bit when I have the time, but...ah... All I can write about is trade, and since Myuri was born, all I can write about are stories about her."
"Ah, so that is what you have been writing from time to time?! 'Twas not complaints or grudges?!"
"It's been a handful taking care of Myuri...But they weren't complaints. Even our arguments make me laugh when I read back on them."
"But we're not rich enough to prepare all that paper, and there is literally no time to write anything down during the busy seasons."
"So you are saving for that?"
"Yes. It's usually nobility that hires monks to write down what happened in the past. Even then, only the biggest towns produce annual chronicles for their own prestige. But it was people from the monasteries who brought in this parchment work we're doing."
"Let me tell you how we can make money from this, and this time I'm sure we can earn plenty without getting wrapped up in trouble!"
"And?"
"First, monasteries deal with the paper. If we gain their gratitude, then we can get it for cheap."
"Then, there is a special reason as to why we want to gain the gratitude of the people at the monastery. And that is..."
"This. For handwriting."
"Handwriting...?"
"You still aren't very good at writing, no matter how much time passes."
"!"
"Ow, ow, don't get—don't get mad!"
"You fool! I may not be very good, but it is not illegible!"
"No, wait, wait. At first, I thought it was because you weren't used to reading and writing. But you're surprisingly dexterous with other things. So when I saw Miss Selim write, I had a thought."
"Her?"
"Miss Selim's handwriting is, well...bad."
"She is also slow at reading, no?"
"Yeah. And then there's all the mistakes she's made."
"...?"
"You all don't have very good eyesight."
"Huh?"
"Th-that cannot be so. I see perfectly well. And I am perfectly free in a dark forest."
"Then write this letter down. Just as you see it, okay?"
"Did you really write it how you see it?"
"Mm."
"The letter you copied was Miss Selim's writing, and it's a little bit off."
"Wha—?"
"You're not this bad at writing. That's why I was unsure at first. But Miss Selim really is bad. I think that's the reason why she trips all the time. She's gotten better recently, but that's probably because she remembers where everything is now. Or maybe from the scent."
"And then what? Should I pray to God, like little Col, so that my eyes may get better?"
"No. That's why we'll go to a monastery."
"Glasses."
"Glasses?"
"Didn't I show you them once somewhere during our journey? If you let a droplet of water trickle onto a leaf, it swells into this indescribable shape, right? They process glass into that shape and polish it nicely. It can make letters bigger and clearer for you. Rich monasteries should have plenty of high-quality glasses."
"From what I've heard, you put it on your face like this. They say the price jumps up because they have to make the glass bigger, and it's difficult to polish, but you can see all the little details in the world."
"We probably can't get it immediately because they go on your face, but we can likely find something that can make the words in your hand bigger. And then a lot of paper. Once we have that and you've practiced writing again, you can record anything you want to remember."
"I'll work as hard as I can to buy paper and ink, so you just need to write so much that you can't read it all. You won't get bored if you write so much that you forget the beginning by the time you reach the end, right?"
"But...If I spend all my time writing, would I not miss things I want to write down?"
"I'm honestly more worried whether you'll actually do it every day or not, since you get bored so easily."
"But you'll have ink and paper. You'll have glasses. And once you can write, you should be fine, right? If you get anxious, make those tools your weapons. Scrub past the hazy darkness with your pen, and wipe it away with your paper."
"An ancient monk once said..."
"...give a man a fish, and he is fed for the day. But teach him to fish, and you feed him for a lifetime."
"I do want fish. And honeyed peaches, as well."
"I know. That's why I'll be busy every day."
"You fool."
"You fool..."
"I do wish for glasses. But I do not need anything so big."
"Mm...Huh? But you should have them anyway, right? And Miss Selim can use them, too."
"She should use them. I do not need them."
"Shall I tell you why?"
"For future reference please."
"If I could see well, I may notice that I am not fond of your face. I would prefer not to be so disappointed after all this time."
"However, I found you in this world without relying on glasses in the first place."
"That's true, I'm not sure if I'd like it if you became even more sharp-sighted."
"Then I'll get something for Miss Selim to read, and that might be expensive glasses, though, so don't get mad, okay?"
"It depends."
"You know..."
"Honestly...It's for work. If I gave Miss Selim glasses, she might get better at reading and writing, since she does seem eager to learn. She's patient, so I could ask her to do all the things that Col did, like writing accounts for purchases and expenditures, letters to guests, and even write letters for business in town. That would make things a lot easier for me."
"Will you not ask me?"
"There's no point in me being free if you're busy."
"Heh."
"Heh-heh, ah-ha, ha-ha-ha-ha...! You fool, what a fool you are."
"Of course I am."
"Well then, should we finish up the rest of this?"
"Mm, let us square it all away."
"Oh, right."
"Hmm?"
"Little Col mentioned it a lot. Books and such need titles. Shall we title this one after you?"
"What's the name of this house?"
"Hmm? Indeed, 'twould be the best."