
New Convo:

"... Wait."
"He shouldn't have been alone. Where are the others?"
"Others?"
"I do not know. Gone most likely. Still."
"It would not matter how many there are."
"Let's be certain. Is this really Col's?"
"Can you follow them?"
"Had the land no end I'd still not let them escape."
"All the more convenient for makeshift measures."
"I apologize for saddening the bag's owner."
"However, I have done him no harm. I would very much like to avoid such a circumstance."
"What is your objective?"
"My comrades saw you prowling about Lenos. I had them discover what the intentions were of such a strange pair as a merchant and a wolf."
"And what have you learned?"
"We have need of a forbidden book - a technological manual."
"... For what purpose?"
"Not for any purpose hostile to the two of you, at the very least."
"The northlands are in unprecedented peril."
"If we have the forbidden book, we may be able to avert this peril."
"Just who are you?"
"Hilde Schnau. Treasurer of the Debau Company."
"And why does Mr. Hilde require the forbidden book?"
"It is natural that you have suspicions. We are not ignorant of your objective, after all."
"However, having considered the various possibilities, the tale of the forbidden book is all that we have left to cling to."
"May I ask what is going on?"
"Currently, the Debau Company is internally split in two parts. And my part is in the worse position."
"... And?"
"I presume you know of our deciding to issue currency?"
"Yes, I thought it a marvelous thing. By that I also mean the profit from minting it, of course."
"It is indeed as you say."
"However, to put it bluntly, we profited too much."
"Profited too much...?"
"Yes. The moment we decided to issue the currency, the profit was vast. In addition, the money changers have already driven up the price of the new currency."
"Originally, the rise in the currency's price made us very pleased as well. However, it seems that there is little that has a good influence on people when in excess - in particular, nobles dividing the new currency between themselves in advance. This is a windfall surpassing any seen in the history of their houses. When they realized this, what they suggested was exceedingly simple."
"To issue even more currency?"
"Increasing the currency issued increases the issuance fee, which in turn increases the profit."
"But why does this mean unprecedented peril for the northlands?"
"Issuing currency requires raw metal. The current orders from the money changers are for such an amount that our reserves are already stretched to their limit. We cannot issue any more right away. However, as selling when the opportunity exists is a fundamental of trade, you are aware of a simple method of resolving the problem, are you not?"
"Plunder the raw metal or coins of other currencies to melt down for the new."
"That is correct. Even in the northlands where trade is meager, there are still places rich in supplies. Those with covetous eyes are now fervently urging that we attack these supply-rich places. In fact, there are a number of rulers and towns that have closed their gates in opposition to our plans. On our side, rulers that covet those very territories are advocating that as well."
"So there are people within the Debau Company itself that support these barbaric notions?"
"Yes. And to diminish their fervor, we require the forbidden book that contains techniques for excavating mines."
"Those urging aggression are thinking rationally, in a sense. They are not simply advocating taking that which they lack. They are hedging against the possibility of our current mines running dry."
"In other words, given the possibility of mines running dry in the near future, they seek to delay the day of reckoning as long as possible, either by mining more slowly or by developing new mines. And even in normal times, developing a mine is a difficult political problem. However, with so much vigor behind the company right now, why not simply obtain lands rich in are deposits? Is it not logical to obtain them right now while we still can?And does not robbing the treasure chests of the towns and rulers we bring down kill two birds with one stone? Or so they advocate."
"However, if we had the forbidden book, we could at least disrupt the mine-depletion argument. After all, even if we cannot perform new excavations, we would be able to make fresh excavations at mines already closed. With mines that were once closed, surely we could sell money to the majority of rulers without objection. Please think about what that means. No doubt you chased after the book because you did not think the northlands sinking into ruin to be a good thing."
"We are able to resolve many things through money; we believe many more should be. We must end the age of swinging swords and shedding blood. Surely the Moon-Hunting Bear showed us centuries ago that the age of size and power is coming to an end!"
"Are you the only one advocating for this?"
"I am not. Our company owner, Hilbert von Debau, shares the same thoughts."
"I beg you. If we do not break the rebels here and now, the Debau Company will decay into a mere invader. If money and military might become one, even the Church will join in. If that occurs, the flames of war shall spread like a wildfire. We do not want the Debau Company to become the gateway to hell. Were the dreams and hopes of this town not attractive to you? That is our owner Debau's dream. At this rate, Debau's dream shall collapse!"
"As you can see, I am a hare, yet I sympathize with Debau's dream. He said he wanted to build a free country on this soil, a place where people are bound to no one, led only by their intellect and effort, and to bring peace to this fractured, quarrelsome land. I believe it is a dream worthy of sacrificing my life. That is why I have raised a hand against a wolf pack."
"For I have my back against the wall."
"In the event this all goes well, I shall of course pay you in thanks. You two have purchased a shop and are settling down in this town. And I am the treasurer of the Debau Company, always supporting Debau from the side."
"The situation is grave. All those involved in the Debau Company have spent most of their lives at the gambling table. They are people who understand that one must strike while the iron is hot. Beginning with our leader Debau himself, our faction has been shut inside the 24/280 company's walls. I am the only one who somehow managed to make it out."
"I do not want to be locked in a shed while I still possess a key. Please think carefully about it. Surely our interests perfectly coincide. I will visit the inn tomorrow evening to hear your decision."
"Mm? What, having some fun in an out-of-the-way place?"
"We've got enough work dealin' with the drunks. Go do that at an inn."
"What will we do?"
"Those words did not feel like a lie,"
"The merits and risks are clear. That hare called himself Hilde. It's as he said."
"What do you think...?"
"I..."
"I think, from our own perspective, we should proceed with Hilde's plan. We do sympathize with Debau's dream, and war does not bring profits forever. The profit is for an instant alone. It's like setting a bushfire for warmth. Certainly it's warm, but nothing is left afterward."
"Also, handing over the book carries no danger by itself."
"If that is what you say, 'tis well."
"Er... Shouldn't you be the one to make this decision? The northlands ride on this. Do you not agree with Hilde's plan?"
"... If the northlands aren't engulfed by war, doesn't that help you, too? Hilde has his own ambitions here, I'm sure, but I don't see any benefit in our opposing them at this stage. Certainly developing closed mines is a good move. Beyond being profitable, it does no damage to new lands. Hilde's words were no lie, right?"
"Do you have some reason for not wanting to hand it over?"
"... Can you not trust Hilde? Certainly, he looks like an unreliable hare but... he seems well informed about what is going on. The treasurer of an organization like the Debau Company has to be a rather sharp thinker. I don't think we need worry on that count."
"Or don't you trust Debau, even so? Certainly it might be difficult to trust someone we've never seen... Also, there are still the rumors of unrest that the Debau Company spread that are still in the air."
"Or are you concerned for the possibility they might do harm to Col?"
"Or is there something I'm just not seeing here?"
"If we hand this forbidden book over, even more lands may be despoiled in the distant future."
"It's true... that possibility does exist. But the new technology will enable the revival of some mines already closed. If that happens, the need to clear new land will be noticeably reduced. After all, it will be easier to develop land already cleared for mining. Furthermore, just as Hilde said, there will be many cases where everything can be resolved with money. In the course of my own travels, I've heard that there actually are specialists who profit from reviving depleted mines. Therefore..."
"Therefore, I think what must be done right now is to eliminate the reason for the hard-liners within the Debau Company to invade the 29/280 northlands. Or more precisely, I think we should support the revival of the dream held by the people who built this town. Of course, I understand you have concerns. The forbidden book probably really does contain amazing techniques. And if we hand that to the Debau Company, that technology might stoke the flame of ambition for further development. However..."
"Why do you say that now of all times? You said whatever the Debau Company was doing in the northlands didn't bother you, didn't you? Isn't that why you supported my buying a store here?"
"And yet, to not hand over the book..."
"Wrong."
"Wrong. 'Tis not like that at all."
"wrong, wrong,"
"wrong,"
"How am I wrong? The damage might well be somewhat excessive. It might be a forbidden book, but it's no book of magic. Certainly it might promote more mine excavation but... even so, I don't think it'll be some sudden tragedy leaving the northlands stripped bare."
"... Certainly, it might come to pass decades down the road, but there's no point thinking about it, is there?"
"There is... a point..."
"... Ah?"
"There is a point... I live a long time. You will not be by my side forever. Why, why must I watch alone as forests are mowed down because of my decision? Why must I watch mountains stripped bare? Come, now... why do you say I must decide? Do you want this to be my fault? Is it because you will die in no time, and after you die, it matters not either way? You, you..."
"I can bear it because you are here... But I - I..."
"I am not so strong."
"Is there no place for me in your store, I wonder?"
"Then, it's fine if you don't decide."
"You knew from the beginning that we should hand the book over to Hilde, didn't you?"
"I will follow what is profitable for me and hand the forbidden book to Hilde. You objected. You objected for a variety of reasons. I'll take responsibility. I'm not sure how I'll take responsibility yet, but I'll take it. I will take it. Is there any deceit in my words?"
"Sorry,"
"It's settled, then. I'll hand the forbidden book to Hilde. Lift up your face and look at me."
"We've managed this far. We'll manage this time, too."
"So, don't cry anymore."
"If you cry too much, you'll give me odd ideas again."
"Let's go back to the inn."
"Business with the young master, you say?"
"Yes. I have a bit to discuss."
"Mm... if he is not in his room... and he's not. Pardon me for a moment."
"Whew! My goodness. I don't want to get any older if that's all it takes to get me drunk."
"It seems to have been quite the celebration."
"Ha-ha. How embarrassing. I do have the excuse that one knows not when one will perish, so one must drink to the fullest."
"Now, then, the young master."
"Yes. Do you know where he might be?"
"He's probably with Rebonato... Ah, that's the name of the head of the Hugo Mercenary Company. I think he's probably there, but... the young master and other heads of companies travel in different circles than the membership. I don't know what liquor he was invited to drink or where he got himself drunk."
"As it seems you are in a hurry, I can get the youngster moving, but..."
"Perhaps I can be of assistance?"
"Of course, it's no problem at all. I am merely a little concerned that he will feel responsible for being drunk and asleep at a critical time if I speak of this to you first."
"I'll send the youngster running. It won't be long."
"Messenger!"
"My word."
"How certain is this information?"
"Does the name Hilde Schnau ring a bell?"
"The treasurer of the Debau Company. He is said to be the owner's right-hand man."
"If Holo's ears are correct, he is, as he claimed to be, this Hilde Schnau."
"One of my comrades has heard talk of dealings with the Debau Company going bad, that some kind of internal conflict seemed to be taking place,"
"Issuing the new currency is vital business. And no doubt the profit's enough to make your head spin. So, we joked that they're done using us so they're not giving us the time of day anymore, but..."
"It seems the owner and most of his faction have already been confined within the company."
"They got greedy."
"Fools. Wearing a bear's hide doesn't make you a bear. They think they can behave like the lords of the south just because they made a lot of money? These are the northlands, forsaken by even the Church. They don't see they've confused the ends and the means. Thinking that all you have to do is attack and the war ends just like that is why the lords here are mocked as bumpkins."
"And? Is that all that the treasurer had to say to you, Mr. Lawrence?"
"No. He seeks cooperation to regain internal control of the Debau Company."
"Cooperation."
"As a practical matter, this means only handing over an object we obtained in Lenos that will further his plan, but..."
"Mmm."
"Mr. Lawrence, you came across some kind of treasure on some adventure?"
"It was somewhat related to a business deal - a forbidden book, which contains techniques for mine excavation."
"Holo and I wanted the forbidden book to occupy the bookshelf of some dilettante in the south for all time, so we cooperated with a book merchant. Right now, that book merchant is headed to the town of Kieschen, far to the south, with an acquaintance of ours."
"Kieschen. That's nearly a week's travel, even with a fast horse."
"Last night, the luggage of our acquaintance, one which ought to be with the book merchant far from here, was tossed right before our 40/280 eyes. It seems they took it so that they could speak to us. The request for cooperation from Mr. Hilde was on top of that."
"Among our comrades, that method for requesting cooperation is respectfully referred to as 'extortion,'"
"Yes. However, Mr. Hilde seems to have arranged it to demonstrate that he is determined, to the death if need be."
"I see,"
"Then, this Hilde is..."
"Not human."
"I - I see..."
"And so, we have agreed to cooperate with Mr. Hilde."
"Or rather, only to hand the forbidden book over. Tonight we will inform him as much."
"What are his chances of victory?"
"He has a chance. That is as far as I will go."
"In other words, you are telling us to run, Mr. Lawrence?"
"I am. If Mr. Hilde fails to persuade them, I think we shall be endangered ourselves. I am nimble, and I have someone who will protect me. However, you... require time when altering the route of your advance."
"Mmm. Certainly, changing the route of one's advance takes time. But retreat takes even more time."
"We're a hardheaded, stubborn bunch, after all."
"Altering the course of your advance, eh...?"
"I've seen what happens when you try to drench a blaze with cold water. Have you seen a refinery, Mr. Lawrence?"
"You have five or six people working, using bellows to pump air into a furnace taller than a siege engine. The coal makes a sound like the breath of a demon as it burns. If you toss water onto it, you don't put the fire out; rather, the flames swell up like an explosion."
"I'm sure they're painfully aware of what they'll need to do to realize their ambitions. Right now, they're all hot and excited. I credit the courage of someone who'd dare pour water over them. But the cost of failure is high."
"Boom,"
"Understood. Mr. Lawrence, thank you. I won't make you have to convince me. After all, I was planning to leave the town behind anyway. This just speeds things up a bit. There's still plenty of booze left in this world that I haven't gotten to drink, after all. This is no time to dawdle around."
"I'll leave a few good men behind. When it's time to run, use them. We'll be waiting on the road that goes to Yoitsu. From there, we know plenty of paths leading east."
"So, we'd better move quickly and quietly. We'll get our baggage together while they're too worried about internal problems to look outside. Moizi, what's our food situation?"
"Two days' worth at best."
"Immediately provision five days' worth to bring that to seven days. Don't sell gold coins. Buy everything with silver."
"Tomorrow morning, during the mist of dawn, the Myuri Mercenary Company shall alter the course of its advance."
"Understood,"
"Then, you should be next."
"Nn, ah, ahh...?"
"I wonder what we ought do about the store?"
"I know not whether that hare can manage to carry this off, but... you have said yourself, nothing good comes from leaving what is precious to you in a perilous place."
"However, you have paid money for it, yes? It is the store of your dreams... and you are rather greedy when it comes to money, after all..."
"As the money goes, I only paid the deposit."
"I'll have to sell, of course."
"Although..."
"Mm?"
"Selling a store before even opening... it's an odd feeling,"
"I think 'tis a shame about the store as well. However, you know well enough what happens to those who are prisoners of the past, do you not?"
"That may be so, but..."
"... So what is it, then?"
"But sometimes being trapped by the past brings people together."
"I wish to return to Yoitsu,"
"Fool. Fate does not repeat itself over and over."
"I'm sure the hard times will end right about here, in fact."
"May I ask what your decision is?"
"We will hand over the forbidden book."
"..."
"Thank you very much."
"We have no objection to handing over the book. However, the book merchant on his way to purchase the forbidden book does not follow the same creed that we do."
"I have money."
"How much?"
"I can pay three hundred gold lumione. I left them in a hideaway of mine in town."
"That is probably far more than is needed. But there is one thing that concerns me."
"What is it?"
"In the event that you fail to persuade the rebels or that the forbidden book becomes fundamentally unnecessary..."
"Yes. If I fail to convince them, I do not mind if you take the forbidden book back by force. Should it no longer be necessary, I will return it in secret."
"-!"
"Thank you very much."
"Then, there is the matter of going all the way to Kieschen to procure the book."
"The book merchant is sly and wary and possesses a strong sense of duty as well. One might say he is the worst kind of man to profit from as a lender,"
"Resorting to documents is too roundabout. I desire a quick decision and a quick resolution. Regardless, there is no time. Right now, the factions within the Debau Company are still arguing between each other. However, numerous lords with stakes involved are particularly obstinate, behaving as if this is a dispute over a family fortune."
"So, you are saying they could take control in the blink of an eye?"
"Yes. No matter how absurd it may be, they are magnificent at getting their way."
"I have a bird companion. His wings are the fastest, but... what he can carry is roughly limited to that sack."
"So, I would like Miss Holo to go."
"I am a substitute for a bird?"
"In a manner of speaking."
"I mind not. Besides, 'tis good to run in my true form once in a while,"
"How long would Miss Holo's feet take to bring her there?"
"Who knows? I know not the distance to the city."
"How much farther is it from Lenos to Kieschen than from here to Lenos?"
"By fast horse, messages take twice as long as from here to Lenos."
"Is the road poor?"
"Somewhat."
"Were I to run without sleep, a day and a half. Three to four days to return."
"That might make even my comrade's wings weep."
"'Tis of course a mad pace."
"Were my old pack mates to learn of a wolf being a hare's errand runner, 'twould be quite a laugh. Even so, 'tis the world as it is today. Right now I can offer nothing save rushing into the company, fangs bared. The time when problems could be solved thus has passed. Am I wrong?"
"I know not how much time 'twill take to retrieve the book from the book dealer. What about you?"
"In Lenos, I proposed means that would require immediate decision..."
"Do you think they shall bear fruit?"
"Some people, if you pack three hundred gold coins in their bag and pat them on the rear, will run as fast as their legs can take them."
"So, it should be five or six days, I imagine."
"I can make no promises,"
"I believe they should have arrived in Kieschen by now. I can only hope that they have already obtained the book."
"Then, let us be on our way with haste."
"You'll be a good boy, won't you?"
New Convo:

"I think it'll be a ruler's face like usual."
"Really? Well which ruler, then? Or they gonna put a whole bunch of faces?"
"Well... how 'bout the head of the Debau Company?"
"There's no way the rulers would forgive the head of a company stamping his face onto a coin. Besides, who is he anyway? His face ain't gonna put any value on a coin."
"... Well, whose face do you think they'll put on it?"
"Who knows?"
"Mr. Merchant, what do you think?"
"Since they're a mining company, I was thinking they might put a pick or something on it."
"Oh, I see. A pick. Could be that, sure."
"Still, it seems kind of a waste to stamp a pick on top of a coin."
"A waste?"
"Well, ain't it? I mean, it's the perfect chance to spread your face around."
"Idiot. There's too many people who wanna spread their face, there's no room to put 'em all!"
"Ah, yeah."
"But if it's a pick, a lot of people won't like that, I bet."
"Bastard!"
"No good, no good. Crap."
"I wonder,"
"Thanks to mine excavatin' the place I was born's turned into deep holes and muddy water. Won't stampin' a pick on a coin stir up trouble with folks?"
"Mm..."
"Don't it make ya think? Somethin' stinks about this whole business."
"And what's that?"
"Who knows. But let me tell ya..."
"It's nice if you can use a ruler whose face you know. I like Reggie the Bold, duke of the duchy of Golbea. That's why I'm sorry I can't use that silver coin no more."
"Well, there is that. But there's going to be trouble stirred up no matter whose face you put on it,"
"It's better for us that trouble is stirred up, though."
"No doubt there."
"Yes!"
"Mr. Lawrence."
"I'm sorry, it seems I fell asleep... What is it?"
"They are raising troops."
"Eh?"
"The Debau Company has decided to raise troops."
"I think we shall move up our timetable and depart tonight."
"What will you do, Mr. Lawrence?"
"There's someone I want to contact."
"Contact?"
"We're preparing to flee because of the sudden summons by the town. The fact the summons for raising troops came out at night is proof someone accustomed to warfare is at the Debau Company. Once morning comes, there'll be no choice but to cooperate with them. But those who are not at all prepared cannot just leave town during the night, even if it means yielding to the summons. A deft move."
"Still... I must meet him."
"Shall I send someone with you?"
"Very soon our preparations will be finished and we shall head out. The route we're taking is southeast, through the section past the butcher shop. There might be old comrades who wish to flee with us, so we'll be waiting outside the town for them for a little while. If you can make it in time, by all means..."
"Any sign of danger outside?"
"There is no sense of panic from so-called tidings of war. I think there is no danger of robbery or murder. But the Debau Company surely has people watching to see where and how others will move. In that sense, I cannot recommend strolling about."
"You've been of great assistance."
"May you allow us to aid you once more."
"By all means."
"May the fortunes of war favor you."
"Mr. Hilde?"
"Mr. Hilde, are you all right?"
"Yes... I have not been killed, at the least."
"What's the situation?"
"There is no time. I will convey only that most crucial."
"The radicals have seized complete power. They have forced the signature of a document transferring all authority. I and my master have lost power. However, they know it will be difficult to manage the company without us. I believe it is not likely they will kill us."
"However, I am not giving up."
"Also considering that Miss Holo will obtain the book, I must not give up now."
"... What do you intend to do?"
"If one leaves this town and heads northeast along roads passing through the mountains, there is a town there called Svernel."
"Svernel is one of the few towns to oppose us until the bitter end. As wool and amber circulate through it, they no doubt believe they will lose their position. Also, it occupies a critical position geographically, so it is an easy place for those who see us as enemies to gather together. So, please..."
"... deliver this there. It contains a request for aid in stopping the radicals."
"My bird comrade knows that Svernel was my fallback plan. It is not likely he would be separated from Miss Holo. Ah yes, I do have another letter as well."
"There is a lord farther north of Svernel who is uncooperative with us. Nearly all of the lords in that area are against us. They cannot cooperate with those who ravage the land and who bring about change, they say. Once they hear of the radicals, they may well rise up."
"I beg you, Mr. Lawrence. Deliver these letters to Svernel. And with Miss Holo, please shatter the momentum of the radicals."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"Do you believe the conflict is already decided?"
"I have encountered many crises thus far and have overcome them all, you see. I will overcome this one as well. Though this time..."
"... the odds are particularly poor."
"I decided I would move forward with Debau, that I would absolutely not stray from the path, come what may. Perhaps that makes an idiot of me, but I think it just fine nonetheless."
"I strive to know how difficult it is to survive just for the sake of surviving. It is the same as being alone in all the world. Mr. Lawrence, I believe that you understand the meaning of these words. That is why you and Miss Holo, in human form-"
"Please stop."
"Please stop. There are things one can cooperate with and things one cannot. That applies even between Holo and I."
"Please take care of the letters."
"I won't accept them."
"maybe"
"therefore."
"Shit."
"Ho, what's this?"
"Hey, this is great. Ya found a great thing here, lad."
"Grace of God, huh? This'll make a great souvenir."
"A tasty-lookin' hare, ain't it?"
"Aw, it's hurt. fled here from someone's kitchen maybe?"
"Who cares about that. I don't see anyone close so let's take it with us."
"Yeah, let's do... mm? Oh, it's still alive."
"Hey, don't run off now."
"That'd be trouble. Snap 'is neck."
"Oh? Ohh yeah, let's do that."
"Please, wait!"
"Please, wait!"
"Mm?"
"That hare."
"Whaaat? You tryin' to swipe this hare from under our noses?"
"No, that hare ran off in the middle of the cooking. I've been looking for it the whole time since. So this is in thanks."
"Ah, er, sorry 'bout that. Had no idea he'd run off from a nobleman's house."
New Convo:

"And so, the great and mighty merchant goes out with a whimper."
"It's some ways away, but heading south may be a wise choice."
"Lenos, eh? If by some chance the Debau Company bunch want to put us to the slaughter, a large army attacking over flat ground would wipe even our unit out in an instant, yes?"
"Yes. However, if we head north, we shall be pursued as rebels, but if we go south, they have no just cause to attack us."
"Well, I suppose in Lenos it would be easier to rendezvous with Miss Holo."
"Indeed, it would. There are no proper towns or villages to the east or west. A good plan would be to quietly head downriver and wait for things to cool down, then head back to Tolkien. Even the Debau Company would surely not advance an army against Lenos."
"What do you think, Mr. Lawrence? Is this acceptable?"
"I think it is a good plan."
"All right. It's settled, then."
"Mr. Lawrence, is something wrong?"
"Eh?"
"If so, I'll have someone lead your horse. It would not do for us to be separated in the middle of marching at night, after all."
"No, I'll walk. After all..."
"... Holo will no doubt be running all night without rest."
"My apologies. I spoke in haste."
"But you are sure about this?"
"The forbidden book will likely be all for naught."
"... Certainly that is true."
"He should realize it's time to quit. The larger a company, the less it is something that can be driven by a single person. Now that he's completely lost internal control, there's surely nothing more he can do."
"Mmm... so he should live to trade again, in other words."
"These are the narrow thoughts of a traveling merchant, mind you."
"I think you are correct in this. Although... it does have a slightly tiresome side to it, I must admit."
"That seems different than what you told me, Moizi."
"Y-young master?"
"Don't call me that. So what, you pounded practicality into me over and over when you're the one drunk on war romance?"
"Either way, I'm not supporting Mr. Lawrence's judgment here. The Debau Company rubs me the wrong way, whether it's the old guard or the new guard."
"What's sad is how we have to help a company that plans to treat us as disposable. Certainly we'd make money. It might be profitable, but..."
"Only in money. A bit of drink and merrymaking and it's gone."
"How about you, Mr. Lawrence? You're a merchant. Have you ever thought about that?"
"In the town of Lenos, there was a merchant who was such a miser even I was taken back."
"Really."
"This incredible person earned money over and over, using without conscience not only the lives of others, but his own life as well. I heard about this man. And I encountered him, with sword and knife pointed at me, in a seemingly abandoned warehouse."
"I asked him, why do you desire money so much? Is it not like trying to drink up an ocean?"
"Because he needed to see, he said."
"To see..."
"To see."
"He might have made a good warrior."
"Wonder if he'd come if we sent an offer his way. What do you think, Moizi?"
"Mmm... certainly, he might become a fine warrior. However, he surely lacks the personality to follow orders. If it is in his interests, he is capable of working with others, no matter how reckless the plan. However, if it is not in his interests, he can betray you no matter how friendly he is. It is a characteristic of many who have things expected of them somewhere else rather than here."
"So you've been betrayed, too, Mr. Lawrence."
"Holo became a pawn, and in the end, before I'd even realized it, even my own life came to be at stake."
"Merchants are frightening. The fact they don't look it makes them even more frightening."
"There's a limit to how large a sword a man can swing. However, there's no limit to the amount a merchant may write on a piece of paper. Here they have failed, but merchants might truly be the rulers of the world someday."
"That might be so, but today is not that day. So, we shall fight on till that day comes."
"... Still, strife in the northlands does worry me somewhat."
"I don't think there's any reasonable chance anyone can stop them with the momentum they have now. I've heard that opponents are gathering in Svernel, but it's no use."
"I wonder what Miss Holo plans to do. Perhaps she can slow conflict down even a little?"
"It is a hard decision but one that must be made. She is indeed impressive."
"We, too, must work so that we bring no shame to our own banner,"
"Damned right we will. But first, we'll change the course of our advance and wait and see."
"Although it's good to do a night march like this after so long. Nice if it stays clear."
"Snow might be all right, but rainfall would be troublesome."
"I'm not worried ab out rain or snow. I'm worried about whether we see the morning sun."
"Morning sun?"
"Yeah. I love seeing the morning sun when marching in the dead of night. What's even better is that even if you're all chewed up from battle, not one person makes a complaint. When you've been going all 87/280 night - What'll become of us? Is there relief ahead? Why'd this happen to us? and so on - it's the best."
"Blood and sweat are like flies buzzing about a corpse with the stench of death; you can never wipe them away. When darkness sticks to your hands, it stays with you like blood; you can never leave it behind. But the moment the sun emerges, all is washed away that instant. When you see that morning sun..."
"... You can't quit the mercenary life."
"Well, it does look like we'll see a really beautiful one this time."
"Well, we've stuffed our bellies so it's time to be off."
"out with a whimper."
"No one misplaced anything?"
"Oh my."
"I- mis... placed..."
"Mr. Hilde!"
"... some... thing..."
"Hey, you rabbit bastard."
"You lost your war. Get it through your head. We're heading south. If you don't wanna die, shut your mouth and curl up right there. Understand?"
"Do you understand?"
"Maybe I should say, as expected of a merchant of the Debau Company? I'll give you credit for being stubborn."
"C-certainly, it is a temperament wasted on a hare."
"I l-left..."
"... l-letters."
"Letters, you say?"
"Hey, is that true?"
"Hey, wake up!"
"Shit! Letters, letters, he said?!"
"Yeah, it's possible... If he asked Mr. Lawrence, then... it's possible. Very possible..."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"You were the last one to meet him. But I was careless and forgot to ask you. "I thought all of this was over after all."
"I get that his final wish was for you to request aid. But what does that mean in real terms?"
"He entrusted me with letters requesting aid in halting the Debau Company's current momentum from those arrayed in opposition to it."
"Thank you for your assistance."
"To Mr. Luward Myuri of the Myuri Mercenary Company. Thank you for hearing my request. Let us take back the Debau Company, hand in hand."
"You got us good, you rabbit bastard,"
"Svernel... Svernel, eh...?"
"Going south is no longer an option. We would risk annihilation."
"Having said that, heading east or west would do nothing to clear up the suspicions directed at us. Also, there are plains in both directions. What, then, rush to Lenos as fast as we can? It's no use. They have boats. They will catch up with us, and there will be battle. That must be avoided at any cost."
"I know,"
"Then, we must turn north. There is nothing that can shield us save the narrow mountain roads. And the one nearest to us"
"is the road to Svernel. As a key line of communication, it cannot be ignored."
"In other words, we're being driven like hares into a hole."
"With a single arrow, he has upended the circumstances of the war. And he has accomplished this as a merchant with a single sentence."
"No choice but to ride with it. Ride and dance nicely on his palm."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"The wagon, you mean?"
"It must be a difficult decision for a merchant."
"I knew this was coming."
"Then, let us be off,"
"The first thing that stands out is that Svernel holds a strategic position in the northlands."
"However, I have my doubts as to whether any proper military strength can be raised there."
"In other words, even including us won't change the situation by much."
"There are the letters Mr. Lawrence received, but..."
"How about heading north from Svernel and requesting the cooperation of the former lord?"
"Klaus von Havlish the Third, you say. Certainly he has not cooperated with the Debau Company whatsoever, but I would not call him part of the rebel faction."
"What's his disposition?"
"I have heard no rumors of valor concerning him. His territory must be fairly broad. He controls a number of roads that reach the north side of the mountain range. To head farther north from Svernel, using one such road is inevitable. Meaning trade to the north side of the mountain range cannot occur without passing through Havlish's lands. The same stands if the Debau Company went there in search of new mining sites."
"So he's the type who likes to collect tolls and loaf around the castle counting his coins."
"Most likely. Surely the man surviving to this point is a simple matter of geography. The present lord aside, his ancestors were probably benevolent."
"We can't rely on him, then,"
"So, we really don't have any sane choice other than to enter the town of Svernel. But..."
"We can't escape any farther north. Am I right?"
"Yes. The food stores cannot take it. If we slip past Svernel, there are only run-down villages along the way to the next proper town. Even if they 'cooperate,' I am doubtful we can live off it."
"It's perfect. The hole we've been driven into has a dead end."
"So, when do you think Miss Holo will rendezvous with us?"
"She expected to return to Lesko today or tomorrow at earliest."
"Once she arrives in Lesko, she'll realize the Debau Company has been taken over. I wonder what she'll do after that? Look for us, probably."
"He referred to this possibility when handing me the letter at the inn. It seemed he'd always planned to go to Svernel should anything happen. Mr. Hilde apparently worked it out with his companion who headed to Kieschen with Holo."
"In other words..."
"... He instigated all this to get his paws on military might."
"If you're thrown into battle empty-handed, all you think of is running away. But if you have a weapon in your hands, even a small one, you can show a lot of bravery, even in a reckless situation. That is why you tie a spear to the hands of new recruits for their first battle but... who knew the same could be done to us."
"I'm sorry, but can we really trust Miss Holo so far?"
"That's what has Mr. Lawrence so calm, isn't it?"
"... Yes. If Holo can rendezvous with us, certainly that would mean great military strength. However-"
"You can save the rest. What I want now are facts."
"So Svernel really has to be our objective."
"I mean, all we have to do is rob enough food and run."
"All right, forward march!"
"Fatten him up well,"
"We can speak a little."
"... To Svernel?"
"Just as you planned."
"Right now... where are we?"
"We entered the mountain passes and left a small mountain lodge this morning. Right now, I see two mountains to the east and one mountain to the north."
"And Miss Holo?"
"Not yet. However, if she returns to Lesko, you said you'd planned to head to Svernel, yes?"
"... Yes. There are... limited routes between both places. My flying companion will likely find us immediately..."
"Food?"
"... I am unsure if I can hold it down."
"Let's moisten it, then."
"I do think this is quite strange."
"... Pathetic."
"Hm?"
"For me... to end up like this..."
"With a single utterance, you bound Mr. Luward's thoughts to your own will. You've amassed a great fortune and left everyone guessing whether you'll move left or right. And now you want even more?"
"True... if one desires too much, one will fail."
"Like your enemy."
"Pursuit?"
"None at the moment. But if it comes, we should hear of it from the lookouts today or tomorrow."
"Right now, you should sleep. I may be envious, but you are a splendid merchant. I think, when the time comes, your wisdom will prove very valuable, far more than that of a mere traveling merchant like myself."
"... I shall do as you advise,"
"Just now, I've received word pursuers from Lesko are drawing near us."
"Our opponents are roughly three to four times our numbers."
"Also, besides being well funded, they aren't a bunch of weaklings under the command of the third son of a noble half playing around. Their mountaineering is just as good or better than ours. At the very least, it's a fine opponent to test our valor against."
"So, what unit is this anyway?"
"You really want to know?"
"Who is it?"
"The Hugo Mercenary Company."
"Come on! Don't scare us like that, boss!"
"If you'd scared me any more, I'd have pissed my pants!"
"Ha-ha, don't be so sore. I didn't know what to think till the moment I heard who was chasing after us, either. But Rebonato's done pretty well for himself. He's apparently taken a lot of the Debau Company's gold, after all."
"fat and stupid"
"Well, let's play along to give him a good excuse at least."
"So, that's how it is! Forward march! Walk quickly if you want to sleep under a roof even a day sooner!"
"What is going on?"
"Pursuit approaches, apparently."
"Though they don't seem to be worried about it at all..."
"It must be a unit they know well."
"What do you mean?"
"It is quite simple. Mercenaries are not quite the barbarians the world fears them as; they will not simply do anything for money. In particular, they rarely raise their blades against their own kind."
"Therefore, the employer's side... has a fair bit of difficulty handling them."
"On the battlefield, killing is chiefly the role of knights and thugs hired for short periods. The job of real mercenaries is to capture their opponents alive. That way, they receive ransom for their captives as well. They do not pillage nearby towns or villages any more than necessary. In Lesko... you surely saw how they live. In particular, the good relations the units have with each other."
"There are people in mercenary companies who have a long history together. Their bonds were born in the course of meeting together on the battlefield many times over. They are a group that dances to its own tune."
"Then..."
"Yes. That is why... one truly hires them not for offensive strength, but as a check upon others. "Though they are used to pillage towns and villages and lay waste to the countryside, depending on circumstances. Even by mistake, one does not hire mercenaries to pursue other mercenaries, particularly when the two units know each other well. If one did so, it would be... a waste of money."
"... All the real authority is probably being held by the lords. My subordinates would never consent to employing money in such a clumsy..."
"I should say, the traitors... would not do such a thing."
"But with this the state of things, we might just manage."
"Eh?"
"To make that determination, surely... then, even if Miss Holo is absent... or perhaps..."
"Would you like to drink some water?"
"I would indeed."
"Fire!"
"While remaining in their seats, eminent merchants can move great amounts of goods and people from one place to another. But almost none of them actually see people and things in motion. That the cunning can fool them is not because they're incompetent. It's because they're careless."
"Painful words to hear,"
"From Rebonato, we have word he's nicely fooling the overseer, but what do you think?"
"It is surely as he says. This must be that one's first time laying eyes on a battlefield, after all."
"So it's a greenhorn with conventional thinking, huh? He probably takes pride in printing his name in church letters. You okay with this, though?"
"I think it is quite all right for you to look with your own eyes and judge accordingly."
"Well, fine,"
"As long as Rebonato's well fed, we'll make it to Svernel just fine. Not trying to put your old comrades down here."
"No, surely it was the lords who decided to dispatch troops. I am not praising them out of affinity, but this is not the man they would select were they attacking us in earnest. That is surely why the overseer is so young."
"Because they know how this'll turn out even without coming to see?"
"Yes."
"Well, at this rate we'll end up arriving in Svernel just like the plan you drew up."
"Yes."
"You thought we had a shot?"
"... Yes."
"Liar. We only had a chance once Rebonato showed up."
"Lords and nobles with their eyes wild over profits get all worked up. They figure brute force is gonna solve all their problems. That's making me treat everything you've been doing till now like water under the bridge."
"Yes. Looking at their numbers and equipment, too, it is immediately clear a ridiculous sum was expended. The lords have probably entered the office itself."
"Just because you get people with swords hanging from their hips to sit down at the table doesn't mean you can have a debate with them. On that score, the company you and Debau ran was pretty incredible. The head of a small mercenary company like me getting a glimpse of either of you was almost impossible."
"It seems we have a grasp on who is truly playing whom. The managers who raised the flag of rebellion against us must want to quickly seize back control from the lords by whatever means necessary."
"Meaning, if they know you're in Svernel, the merchants will say, 'It's our turn now,' and start negotiating?"
"And they might well offer various compromises to obtain my cooperation in seizing control from the lords. I believe there is every possibility of that."
"Besides, arriving in Svernel safely will make people who do not know the situation see it as us slipping away, like an eel, from a force several times our number. That will serve to raise morale splendidly."
"I agree. So on top of that, assemble fighting strength, and like you said, brush off the Debau Company's demands and wring concessions out... huh? They're relying on momentum, too. There's no way those lords have any deep plan here. If the fatal flaw's the merchants 119/280 realizing they're being played by the lords, they'll decide to swallow their shame and go back into their sheaths, is that it?"
"Yes. Merchants live and die by their calculations of loss and profit."
"So, if all of this actually goes well, there'll be an appropriate payoff, I take it?"
"Of course. A merchant's gratitude is redeemable in gold, after all."
laugh."Haha... I get it. I get all of it. Still, I see..."
"What is it?"
"Mm? Ahh, well, you see."
"At first, I thought it best if the Debau Company went ahead and ripped itself apart."
"The company looked like a sign our mercenary's luck would be running out soon."
"It's simple. I've met someone whose principles were betrayed who's scheming to turn it all around. The situation's bad. Furthermore, the enemy's huge, even overwhelming. Because of that, he has to gather military strength together. He can't let the slightest opportunity to strike back go to waste. And, cooking up a ruse, he's finally got his way to strike back. We, the Myuri Mercenary Company, are among the few, precious lights of hope. We're not doing this for money. Actually it took all I had not to smack around the lot of you back at Lesko. In other words..."
"In other words, right now, we're pure mercenaries. Mercenaries through and through. This is a saying from the great Iohann Schlauzenvitz: To be a mercenary, one needs power. And how much you can live as a mercenary depends on how many of the powerless need that power and how well you learn how to use it. Thinking only of swinging your sword, breathing like the air is your food, dashing across the battlefield: That's a mercenary. The perfect tool. And the simpler a tool, the more beautiful it is."
"A contract must obtain what both sides desire, nothing more, nothing less. It is the foundation of all business."
"Well, let's do our best to be good paper tigers. We want a fat reward if this works, too."
"Ha-ha. Better show me some nice dreams. Don't get hit by a stray arrow now."
"You would do better to take care I do not end up as dinner."
"You're not lying."
"Ah, I think it'll be all right,"
"People who aren't good at figuring out profits and losses don't change their thinking that easily."
"For better or worse."
"You've a point there. But that means we should count on Svernel."
"Is that so? Unfortunately, I have never had any actual dealings with them."
"Even so. After all, they're normal - they have walls around their town, they collect taxes, they have guilds, they regulate merchants, they carefully set the price of bread, and trading goods back and forth makes their eyes shine. They're a lot easier to predict than folks from a town with no walls and no taxes that seems to run itself as if by magic."
"Certainly, one must not trust people like that."
"Well, we'll find out when we get there. We're close enough we should arrive tomorrow or the morning after at most. We'd better finally think about how we're gonna escape Rebonato."
"Depends a bit on how they want to play it."
"wounded"
"What? With swords and spears?"
"Yes. The boss wants to give the overseer bastard chills. So he wants one big battle, he says."
"Mmm..."
"But if that happens, we'll each have to hand captives over. What does he say about that?"
"Yes. The boss wants to hand four people over to you, and you to hand... roughly fifteen people over to-"
"What?"
"It's part of the boss's idea."
"Explain."
"As you wish. The boss said he wants to negotiate a prisoner exchange and wants to present an ultimatum at that time."
"Negotiate?"
"Yes. We have both suffered losses from attrition. So, there must be room to negotiate. The boss will bring that merchant overseer along to the meeting. We would like Master Luward Myuri and one other person to come to negotiate."
"In other words, your ignorant, pure young merchant will demand ransom for our captured comrades and will push us to surrender after that."
"You will become very angry at the content of the negotiations. And in the face of overbearing, unreasonable demands, you will have no difficulty taking advantage of the carelessness of a naive youth, taking him hostage. We will be forced to release our captives and allow you to escape. We will report that we sincerely tried, but someone was foolish."
"You think it'll go that smoothly? He might be young and naive, but he's still from the Debau Company."
"He's horrible. The boss has put up with him pretty well. Should've killed him on the first day."
"Ahem, or so what everyone says."
"Got it. We were just thinking of how to get into Svernel ourselves. This is good, I think. It's what I'd expect of a plan from the famed veteran captain of the Hugo Mercenary Company."
"The captain will be proud to hear of your words. I believe we must leave it at that."
"Understood. Then, we need the particulars... or are those details being left to us?"
"The boss said as much."
"All right, we'll let you know when and how we're gonna go at it. Fine with you?"
"As you wish."
"So, that's how it is, Moizi. Pick about fifteen unlucky guys. And use all of our pig's blood. For the little details... how about we do it like back at Lesso Valley?"
"... I see. Understood. I shall find for a proper place with all haste."
"Please do."
"Everyone's blades are smeared with grease, right?"
"Yes. They seem to be using rather well-worn weapons as well. They'll say they broke during combat and request compensation, I imagine."
"Ha, makes me jealous... How about we do that, too?"
"Well, the biggest concern is moving exactly according to plan. No oversights, right?"
"Correct. They are reasonable people as well. As they have made their preparations, it should all go well."
"I see."
"So now that you see you can't run you're minded to fight! We, the Hugo Mercenary Company, will show our respect for the Myuri Mercenary Company's banner and fight with all our strength!"
"We advance, our destinies granted by God! Those who live by the sword must sometimes turn our backs against God himself and accept the stigma of apostates! However, what they cannot endure is the stigma of foully attacking their enemy's back! We desire to put our lives on the line for the sake of the much-reputed Hugo Mercenary Company's honor!"
"Very well! No doubt the war god Rajitel will reveal the truth!"
"A worthy foe! Attack!!"
"What is so amusing?"
"What do you mean, what? It's obv-"
"Holo!"
"When... did you get back?"
"I returned to the town the day before yesterday, but 'twas delayed a bit there."
"I see... I mean, I'm glad you're sa-"
"So? What is the hare doing here?"
"Things went in a completely different direction than we expected."
"Do not tell me you fell for honeyed words and promises?"
"Hmph. Well, we heard most of the story back in town. I can deduce the rest."
"We?"
"I shall ask for the details later. First, what are you doing? Using pig's blood even; is there some kind of festival afoot?"
"Maybe it's easiest to call it mercenaries putting on an act together?"
"Putting on an act is very important. Everyone has their role to play, after all."
"I'm happy that you understand. I feared I might be muddying the name of Myuri with this farce."
"I might well be angry if 'twere done poorly."
"But 'tis well done. Myuri was quite fond of playing tricks upon others, after all."
"Is that so?!"
"It is. However, males of all sorts like this sort of thing, do they not? Provided that they are not sweaty-palmed fools, that is."
"I suppose that's true not just of mercenaries, but everyone who lives on the battlefield. Well, it might be hard to watch, but please bear it a bit longer. The curtain will rise very shortly."
"So it would seem. So that's why you're sneaking something off toward the mountain?"
"That is correct."
"And this is because you want those great sleds and so forth to move forward, is it not?"
"it is as you say."
"Thanks to that, 'twas hard for me to find anywhere to hide, you see."
"A place to hide?"
"Indeed. Well, then, 'tis not your place to mind the hare forever."
"Hm. So this is why I caught the scent of blood. Damned fool."
"Hold this, will you?"
"Take good care of it. It's an important hare."
"Aye, I'm counting on it. Come, you, let us be off."
"Where are you going?"
"I hid a certain something in the mountains. I must go retrieve it."
"If that's the case, I can send one of my men to..."
"Though I am grateful for your concern, this fool would sulk soon enough."
"That being so, wait just a bit. I shall return soon enough."
"Ah, yes..."
"So, that's where you came here from?"
"Aye. When I heard sounds of fighting, I really thought I might have to join the battle as a wolf."
"It was a close call, then. If that'd happened the whole thing would've been a waste."
"If Luis hadn't told me, it would have been a much closer thing."
"Luis?"
"Do not make that face. There. There."
"It's rare for you to remember a name."
"What, are you jealous?"
"Well, judging from your look after you noticed I was there, 'tis surely that as well. What had you so flustered? You were like a dog who had not seen his master in ages."
"Hng, wha-!"
"... Urgh..."
"... Holo?"
"..."
"So you were the one putting on an act,"
"Ow, ow! Well, I'm sure you'd have been appalled if you knew how I'd been faring."
"Welcome back."
"If we're too slow someone's going to come looking for us."
"Somehow, I feel like I've been ridden like a horse."
"... Why does the one holding the reins end up on the bottom?"
New Convo:

"So, this is the forbidden book."
"The contents?"
"Who knows... but according to that portly book merchant..."
"phew"
"... 'Tis authentic."
"I-I see..."
"It's good you managed to get it, though."
"... There was an argument?"
"Something like that."
"I-is that so...?"
"Surely you comprehend how great a chore it is to shake off Col?"
"Ah!"
"We forced him to go his separate way to begin with, so of course the sight of my face put him in tears. I had to make my escape while that overly serious church girl held him back!"
"Well, that's... really..."
"It certainly is! And after all I've done for her, the attitude that serious church lass took with me..."
"More importantly, why are you making for such a dangerous town with that hare anyway?"
"I did hear talk of you heading to Svernel, hare in hand, plotting to join the rebels. How many times must my precious Lawrence stick his nose into danger no matter what I say before he is satisfied, I wonder?"
"About that... it was because Mr. Hilde's strategy was just too good; that's all I can really say."
"But in spite of all that, what kind of idiot heads for enemy territory on purpose?"
"Well, should just the two of us run away?"
"... I just wanted to say it."
"But a few things will probably sprout from this, yes?"
"You saw that stage play, too, didn't you? The Debau Company seems to be fairly shaken internally. The company's middle management planned to use the power of the lords to seize control, but apparently it's really the lords using them. That's why they're forced to make a rather stupid decision like this."
"... It serves them right."
"Yeah. But that's a favorable situation for our side."
"Is that so? All it means is the enemy's switched from backstabbing merchants to disorganized oafs."
"That may be so, but from the beginning the Debau Company planned to use the lords as its puppets while seizing power over the region from them. In other words, we think there's a high likelihood the traitors within the Debau Company didn't want the situation as it is now."
"So light the fires of rebellion, and sympathizers shall emerge from the rebels and such...?"
"At the very least, that's what Hilde thinks. I think it's an optimistic perspective, too, but some of the traitors must be more fervent than others. It wouldn't be strange if some thought, If we keep on going like this, the lords will run us into the ground, and so forth."
"..."
"So what, call back the owner they have bared their fangs at once already? And if called back, would he forgive them?"
"I think... they will. And Mr. Hilde and the others are spurring a counterattack because they think so."
"You merchants truly are a pack of fools..."
"So if you were an exceptionally skilled merchant who could easily do such shocking things, what would you do?"
"Mm?"
"... Do you intend to push this onto me? I must say that is very small-minded of you."
"I think we stupid males are proud of being good at that."
"Yes, yes. That is so."
"Hmph."
"Incidentally..."
"If you arrived at Lesko the day before yesterday, what were you doing between then and coming here?"
"The town was like a clam that had closed its shell. Even knowing without doubt something had happened to the hare, I had little notion of what exactly that something was. That and someone left the inn without leaving so much as a note."
"So you were investigating the circumstances?"
"Aye. Luis's comrades had vanished as well. But though Luis did not take human form, he truly has courage and is quite valiant. He said he would not give up and would keep searching. Aye. Enough that 'tis truly wasted on a bird."
"... This Luis is so incredible, then?"
"Aye. Let us say we had a bit of an adventure."
"I see,"
"Making a forced march, running all over day and night, finally arriving at the town and searching for those who were missing and gathering information was not something that could be done alone. Sometimes he urged me on; sometimes I urged him on. Sometimes I led him; sometimes he led me. That is why..."
"... I might have fallen for him just a bit."
"Wh-why you little-!"
"How much do you think I love you, you fool?"
"But quite a lot actually happened. We ended up fleeing from the town in a big hurry."
"Is that so?"
"Indeed. I do not intend to second-guess the judgments you all made... but they are a fiercer enemy than before. Perhaps it is because of their internal disputes that they have hardened their defenses to excess. 'Tis the time for it, after all. That sack has much of Luis's courage packed in it."
"By the way, you may not. "Luis was told so by his master. If the worst happens, do not let anyone see or ask, just deliver the package to the hare."
"But the town is filled with enemies, you see. You have no idea how much trouble it was to get that thing... Furthermore, he had the courage to entrust such a valuable thing to me because I am stronger. You understand why he makes me swoon, yes?"
"Have you seen it?"
"You truly are a fool."
"Certainly."
"We're back."
"It is about time."
"You truly do seem envious,"
"I know not what is so good about it."
"Well, if I'd been a mercenary, I might not have ever traveled with you."
"Who knows? At the very least, you would never be able to keep up to their fine work as you are now. Perhaps you would have died before ever meeting me?"
"But,"
"Since 'twould be you, it might have been fun whatever happened."
"There's such a thing as fate. 'Tis what I believe."
"I am tired of grieving. I am tired of worry and hesitation. Hungry, all four paws hurting from the cold, frantically running on the snowcovered roads - even so, I thought about it. Until even a very short time ago, I never imagined she called the Wisewolf of Yoitsu would end up doing this sort of thing. However, if 'tis fate, 'tis not a poor one, I think."
"And since I had a lot of time to think as I ran, I thought of it."
"Thought of it?"
"The name of your store."
"Eh?"
"Avalanche!"
"Retreat! Retreaaat!"
"Gather the wounded! Retreat! It's an act of God!"
"Running away, cowards?!"
"Damn it all!"
"The ones caught up in the avalanche were pikemen. Well, I'm sure they're all right."
"Also, it was all snow spray, not nearly as bad as the real thing. None of our men would die from the likes of that."
"Once things settle down a little, they will no doubt be in touch with us. What should concern us is what comes next."
"Everyone, well done."
"Compared to the large-scale, much-reputed Hugo Mercenary Company, your fine work was as good or better. Unfortunately we didn't win the match, but that'll make it more fun next time we spar with them."
"Well, then, I'd like to say get some rest for what's left of the day, but unfortunately it's still a ways until we can sleep under a roof. On top of that, we have to be the mercenary company that used a sudden avalanche to barely escape. So because of that, I want to advance with all speed. Anyone want to complain?"
"All right, after a few preparations, we advance!"
"So, what are they going to do now?"
"What do you think they'll do? When I heard the plan, it made my tongue curl."
"I know not."
"After, they're going to negotiate. After all, they have fifteen of their comrades taken captive with wounds all over their body. The other side thinks they're at an overwhelming advantage, so this side has no choice but to negotiate. We'll go negotiate and take hostage the young merchant pathetically certain of victory."
"... And then, we get their captured comrades released and run for it?"
"That rough bunch will make the merchant the scapegoat, absolving them of blame."
"hmph"
"All jumbled together."
"But it's marvelous, isn't it?"
"I would have thought you more concerned they would push the fool's role unto you."
"At the very least, I have plenty of credible bad experiences to threaten him with. I've had more of them than he has, after all."
"Indeed. And truly you have not had enough."
"Leaving that aside, so many people is inconvenient."
"Mm?"
"Is there nothing else in your head?"
"The pack leader holds the hare in high regard, you see. I cannot find a time to hand this to him."
"Certainly, handing it over as soon as possible and having one less piece of baggage is a good thing."
"But we must think of what comes after handing it over, especially if 'tis not in a place touched by human eyes."
"True... but how big is it? There's a bunch of things rattling around in the sack, but..."
"About this much. 'Tis wrapped in a cloth."
"Not something you can just hide with a little effort."
"Aye. Especially for a hare."
"If we go to Svernel, there'll be plenty of opportunities once things settle down. Also, if he's going to negotiate with the Debau Company, he can't stay as a hare forever."
"Are you free?"
"Yes."
"We need to discuss what will happen from here on."
"Yes."
"Who the hell are those people?"
"I've brought them back."
"Now, then, the rest is a battle without a script."
"Miss Holo was able to safely rendezvous with us. Furthermore, I have heard she carries some kind of book with her."
"Miss"
"He shall provide you with the details."
"Within the text is recorded technology for mine development."
"I heard it was a 'forbidden book.'"
"Yes. I think Mr. Hilde might be able to explain more about it, but..."
"... we looked into it in the past ourselves. We have settled that the writer was indeed executed, but as for the contents, only experts could say, and we are not."
"So is it the real thing?"
"According to the book merchant, it is authentic. However, as it is written in words of the desert regions, I can't read a single word of it."
"I see. So as a fellow man of the Debau Company, what do you think? Is it trustworthy enough to use as a bargaining chip?"
"That depends on how much we can make them believe it is the real thing, I would think."
"Ha-ha. That's certainly a true negotiator talking. How promising."
"The practical problems are the difficulty in finding a person who can translate it and, having done so, the question of if the translator can be trusted. There are always uncertainties in business."
"All the conditions are met, then: first, we of the Myuri Mercenary Company; second, the forbidden book; and third, Miss Holo,"
"Also, the scouts we sent to Svernel have returned with favorable replies. At the very least, the Svernel town council will welcome us."
"That doesn't mean there aren't problems."
"It's true that those who oppose the Debau Company have gathered at Svernel. But we don't know if that makes all of them our allies."
"They do appear to have opposing the Debau Company in common. But they'll naturally have different approaches, some resisting so they can kill it, others resisting who aren't thinking beyond slowing it down."
"In other words, they are saying they will not work with us unless I can prove my identity?"
"Yeah. In particular, Hilde Schnau's ingenuity is the bandwagon we want to ride on, so we don't have any intention of taking orders from anyone else. Since that's the case, you have to take the reins in negotiations."
"It is written in scripture that without fail what one conceals will go awry. I will have no choice but to reveal myself."
"On top of that, can you get everyone with disagreements on board?"
"It is my job to do so. You may leave that task to me."
"We are your shield and your sword. Let our banner be bathed with your blood; let our banner be the shroud for your corpse."
"And in the event of victory, may your banner be the one that flutters."
"When I was a boy, I wanted to be a merchant, but maybe who I wanted to be was you."
"Fine."
"Well, then, the Hugo Mercenary Company will await you at the appointed place,"
"Moizi, make preparations."
"Sir."
"I never know if I'm nervous or if the gear's just so damned heavy."
"Now, Mr. Lawrence, how's your end?"
"Make preparations for departure just in case."
"Well, let's go."
"Sorry to keep you waiting."
"I believe you received my message..."
"Let me repeat. This is not a negotiation. This is a declaration."
"I don't mind. I'm handy with a sword, but not so with words,"
"We have taken fifteen captive. For your part, you have only four of our men captive. These are clear facts not up for debate. But we are well aware of the honor of the Myuri Mercenary Company's flag until now. Therefore, we find no reason to continue to turn our swords upon you."
"We will not ask where you are headed. We will, however, inform you of our conclusion."
"My name is Raji Glem. I am a merchant of the Debau Company. I want you to think of my voice, my orders, as speaking for the Debau Company."
"We have two demands. The first, you will pay ransom for our captives. The second, you will halt your advance."
"No response?"
"Ransom? You at least know the price, I take it?"
"Ten gold lumione a head! You will pay immediately!"
"Wh-why are you deciding th-"
"Ha! That's a high enough price for a pack of beaten dogs!"
"This won't do, Captain Rebonato. This relates to your reputation."
"You whelp! This is not a negotiation! It's a declaration! Don't you see that?!"
"What the...?"
"... Ha, ha-ha, ha-ha-ha! How about this, whelp! Yes, this is a contract! A pledge for you to pay this amount of money in thanks for our sparing the lives of the subordinates you abandoned. It is even sealed with blood! Do you know what this means! If you defy this, we can bring you to heel as contract violators at any time of our choosing!"
"Ugh... but who'll believe that's real...?"
"Take a good look! This is the contract that binds you!"
"No, but that can't be..."
"What are you saying! Can you not read th-?"
"Hmph."
"He sure is noisy."
"Luward!"
"Ugh... uhh..."
"Don't move, you bastard. You'll really be in shit if you break your neck."
"Luward..."
"Don't give me that face, Rebonato. This is what happens when your master is a fool."
"Release Mr. Glem."
"Ha! Mr. Glem, is it now? Don't embarrass your banner. How much will you pay for him?"
"Who's the whelp now?"
"Hey, Luward!"
"Don't shout, don't shout..."
"Bring all of my men here."
"U-urgh...!"
"You said this was no place for negotiation?"
"... You would release Master Glem?"
"On the name of the Myuri Mercenary Company."
"Hey, Rebonato. Whatever the reason, isn't this pretty pathetic for you?"
"... Shut up, brat. This is the Debau Company's..."
"Hmph. If you want to take your employer's side so much, all you have to do is ask. If Glem here's a brave merchant, he'll let you negotiate."
"... Rebonato..."
"Do it."
"... I do not think Luward would die from that, but..."
"Now, then, who let his guard down?"
"...!...? Mr. Rebonato...?"
"What?"
"What, an actual merchant?"
"Hey, don't disappoint me here..."
"Mr. Glem, get over here."
"Damn it, they sure treated you rough. I didn't think they'd do this."
"Guaa, aa..."
"Hmph... just a broken rib or two. Get a grip. You're not coughing blood, but that's Luward for you."
"Rebo... na... t..."
"Oh, you're conscious? I must've held back too much."
"Hey, Luward. Since you're listening, I'll say it. Surrender. Stop heading to Svernel. And you must know the location of Hilde Schnau. Say it. Hey, nothing bad'll happen... We'll capture him and return him alive."
"Are you listening? You're listening, right? I'm changing my body position and getting up."
"Here we go."
"Aa... gaa...!"
"Now you're awake. So, what's your answer?"
"Ugh... wh-why...?"
"Why? I ask and you ask back, huh?"
"What trash, I'll just toss it away,"
"Well, you have a point. I thought that, too."
"But I had no choice. They piled the money high."
"You d-didn't..."
"Ha-ha, you giving me that pure, innocent look makes it tough on me. After all, I'm... I'm a traitor, that's why."
"The brave, resolute, and stubborn Hugo Mercenary Company? Well, I've been upholding that charming reputation for twenty years now. When you add my ancestors, it's centuries, huh?"
"... Why, why... answer... me!"
"Yeah. I was bothered by it. Why do I have to betray you? We might be savage and ferocious, but we're mercenaries who uphold our ways. But you see, they piled up the money."
"For money, Luward."
"If I handed you any better weapon you'd kill him."
"Don't make me kill anyone, Moizi."
"Gw... aa...!"
"Leave it at that. If he dies, it's inconvenient for us, too."
"I thought about it a lot. Life only comes around once. So, I figured it was all right to sell the flag out to the Debau Company for a pile of money big enough to make your head spin."
"I mean, Luward, think about it. How many mercenary companies do you think have vanished from sloppy little deals? You remember a bunch from just lately?"
"Listen to me."
"Plus, there's that stuff in Lesko. Our time is done. That's why I think it's stupid to worry about the stuff we used to. Ain't it so, Luward?"
"In the end, we wanna live somewhere nice, have a good time, and then kick the bucket. Right? 178/280 "And all you have to do to make it happen is lower your head to these merchants. That's all this is."
"In the end, I just couldn't risk my life for something that'll soon be forgotten. Money glitters, and good liquor's expensive. That's how it is, Luward."
"You know where Hilde Schnau is, don't you? That's why you're heading toward Svernel, isn't it? Where is he? The bosses at the Debau Company really want to know. "So say it, Luward. Please say it."
"If you don't say it, I'll kill you."
"Rebonato...!"
"We were bumpkins who didn't know the might of money. There's no reason to be ashamed of that. So, Luward, say it. Or is it..."
"... Is it simply that you don't know?"
"...!"
"Luward, say it. Say it, Luward!!"
"... Mr.... Lawrence..."
"... Call her."
"HOLOOOOooo...!"
"Ready!"
"... Ah?"
"Some kind of prayer? Hey, Luwa..."
"Fire, use f-"
"... O-on my horse...!"
"Take care of the young master!"
"Y-you'll be in the way!"
"Let's... run. We have... to run."
"We've lost!"
"Mr. Moizi..."
"... Pardon me. Let us hurry. You and the young one are both in danger."
"The camp's been sighted! Only a little farther!"
"Medicine! Bring medicine and liquor!"
"Come back with all the hot water we have! We must treat the young one quickly!"
"Stopped the bleeding! Where's that poultice?!"
"Strategist! Fight back? March forward?!"
"Weapons! Bring weapons!"
"Run, young man! Open the second sack, it's right there!"
"God is at your side. Let us pray."
"You're in time..."
"Is he conscious?!"
"Mr. Lawrence! It's me!"
"May we consider that wolf as an ally?!"
"It's... Holo."
"Understood."
"Medics stay behind. Everyone else, gather arms!"
"The Hugo Mercenary Company betrayed us! Now we go rescue our comrades!"
"S-strategist!"
"... Miss Holo, is it?"
"Glem. Wh-why did you...?"
"Surely you can put him to some use."
"Your comrades are on their way. Some are wounded. You would do well to greet them quickly."
"Fool."
"... We're... saved..."
"Hmph. In a sense."
"But I may have erred in saving you."
New Convo:

"..."
"What are you doing?"
"Are you going to tell me to go sleep?"
"And just where are you going?"
"That's obvious. They're talking in there about what to do now, right?"
"They are doing no such thing."
"'Tis true. Come, you, calm yourself."
"... Come, you. The fever is making you a fool."
"Your leg was stabbed, and you were beaten enough to make you vomit everything in your stomach. If you weaken your body further, you could even die. Come, now - if you were in my shoes, what would you do?"
"You said it plainly yourself."
"... What?"
"That we have lost."
"I..."
"I don't think Mr. Hilde will give up."
"Certainly, that hare will not give up."
"Then-"
"However, that does not make true that which you wish to say."
"What should we do, then?"
"You can't mean...? "You're not saying, run away, just the two of us?"
"Yes."
"We can't! We can't do such a thing!"
"Then, what would our staying accomplish? Lawrence, what will you do?"
"Lawrence... 'tis not my thought alone. The hare and the people of the Myuri Mercenary Company think it as well."
"They can't flee?"
"The hare has not given up yet. Those who inherit the name of Myuri must remain at any rate."
"Are you... all right with this?"
"'Tis not all right. Of course it is not all right."
"Then, shouldn't we stay here with them? Why don't we try our best and see? If they were in our shoes, the Myuri Mercenary Company surely wouldn't abandon us and run because the circumstances were unfavorable. They did inherit the name of your pack mate from your homeland, after all."
"But what can we do by remaining here? Stick around until the bitter end and flee when all is truly lost? I am not infallible. There are things that cannot be salvaged if one is taken by surprise. Once the hare is finally slain, are you confident we could abandon the rest and run then? Surely we could not? I, too, could only push as far as it would go in such an event. But that would be dying in vain. 'Tis not something we ought to do, knowing what the result shall be."
"Come, you - surely you at least understand that there is no role here for you to play?"
"Were you not going to open a store? Did you not tell me to think of a name for that store? I have decided. Not just the name of your store, but that we will live pleasantly in your store as well... Will you break that promise?"
"I truly would enjoy it... Living idly with you would be truly a delight... Surely you understand, do you not? After the clamor of town festivals, the fear of being left behind alone when everyone goes back to their normal lives? I want a home. I really do not want to know what is happening to Yoitsu anymore. I know that. I know what is happening to it... I did not want to return to Yoitsu so that I could be alone. That was why I was truly happy you comforted me in Lesko. When I thought, I am not alone, I was truly happy..."
"Th-that doesn't mean..."
"Do not make me say it."
"Come, you - do you not yet understand that one must give up certain things?"
"And you have, to gain me. And you will, to gain what comes ahead. You are naive, are you not?"
"... Naive?"
"Did you mean to carry on our journey forever? You have sympathy. I, too, understand how you cannot have witnessed that and not become so angry you cannot forgive it. But what is that within you that you cannot compromise, I wonder? Is that what you truly must protect? If that is so, why did you take my hand all of those times? You..."
"Am I not your princess?"
"Let's end this journey,"
"Let's split up before splitting up becomes too hard."
"I wish to live a quiet life with you..."
"Holo."
"Ugh..."
"I-I'm all right..."
"Fool. Here, grab on."
"Have you made your decision?"
"May you both be happy."
"... in spite of all this,"
"Has something happened?"
"Right now, the inn is surrounded by soldiers."
"Wh-?!"
"The man who administers the town in the name of the town council has been seen riding a horse. It will not be idle chitchat, I am sure."
"But surely they will not surround us at all hours of the day. Please flee when there is an opening. Now, then."
"Please wait!"
"Ho."
"I can tell just by looking."
"You, too."
"It can't be."
"The sooner we speak the better. I'm borrowing the room there."
"Mr. Millike!"
"Jean Millike?"
"Indeed. Chairman of the Svernel Merchants' Council. Also known as..."
"Klaus von Havlish the Third."
"Wha...?!"
"I received a bizarre report before dawn and thought, just perhaps, but for you to truly not know..."
"I have heard you have a more valiant form."
"... A literally rough welcome. But I did not come for pleasant conversation. I shall borrow the room in here. I take it the fireplace is lit?"
"This way,"
"He's not human?"
"About half."
"Come. You both have a responsibility to come."
"We can listen to what he says."
"Now, then."
"You've caused quite the uproar in this land."
"Under the name of Havlish, my lands have enjoyed two centuries of peace. There have been no great expeditions from the Church. The steep mountains and valleys have protected it from fools hungry for land. Its sole weakness is this place here, Svernel. To think you would bring your enemy to its doorstep... If you wish to make a mess, make it in your own lands. Is that not so, you of the Debau Company?"
"I make no excuses that the result was to invite my enemy. However, that is why I am here, so that I may make amends."
"Amends?"
"Surely you say this in jest? How large a force do you think presses upon the town from the trade route to the south? There is a report that a captain of a thousand has been sighted. They come not for some 208/280 minor skirmish in the mountains. They come to tear down the town itself."
"Captain of a thousand"
"Don't tell me you don't know. I saw a bird flying around yesterday, a bird not seen in these parts. A friend of yours, yes?"
"Does a sublime wolf such as you intend to participate in this foolish disturbance?"
"Half,"
"I have heard you are the one who saved them. Should you lend any further support-"
"I shall not."
"As I expected. A very practical judgment."
"The powerless always have absurd dreams. Those who have power understand well what power can accomplish. They understand just 209/280 because you can carry a boulder does not mean you can move a mountain. It is only those who play with pebbles who dream of moving a mountain. As it is my task to oversee trade in this town, I am well aware of what incredible visionaries merchants are. That is why neither Svernel nor my lands have had anything to do with you great and powerful sorts. You sent envoys again and again, yes. Yet you yourself never came once. Had you used your own feet, you would have at least learned your own subordinates planned to betray you."
"When you are trading, you feel you can see until the ends of the world. I think it is a marvelous thing. But that is why you do not notice the pitfall at your feet. I inherited the name Jean Millike some five years ago. Jean Millike had a strong spirit, but his body was frail. He became sick, bedridden, and promptly passed on. I owed him, too, you see; he'd resolved a trade dispute while this town had asked me to manage the circulation of furs and amber. There is no hidden truth; it's a common enough story. And no one ever told you this common enough thing. You thought Svernel and the lands behind it were ruled by different people. And because you thought so, you came to this town. Is it not so?"
"Then why did you give the envoys we sent favorable replies?"
"It's very simple. If we'd refused, you'd have gone somewhere else. In this season, any village is low for food. If mercenaries are going to eat villages whole, down to the locusts, and still die on the side of a road somewhere, better to take you in and capture you here in town."
"You intend to sell us?"
"No..."
"So not us, but rather me."
"Correct."
"Yes. I will sell you and you alone. I'm sure you are prepared for this much, at least?"
"I am. However, my desire to continue is greater."
"Mmm. It is important not to give up. But the problem is doing it on someone else's territory. If you want to do it, do it in your own place."
"This is not a matter for us alone. Should our plan succeed, the northlands should enjoy long-term stability. A great many lords will be drawn into the same economic sphere through using the same currency. That being the case, it will be simply unprofitable to remain on the outside. In the difficult environment of the northlands, one will perish if unable to purchase food from neighboring lands. A common currency will become a powerful weapon in foreign trade. Our leader has boasted, those lords, hitherto beyond reproach even by God himself, shall be tamed with a golden yoke."
"And what proof is there that a world ruled by merchants instead of lords would be run any better?"
"Merchants engage in trade, and the foundation of trade is profit. And in trade, you profit because you made someone happy."
"Ho."
"You've really done your best."
"This is where I would put you down as a brat, knowing nothing of the world... but it seems that is not so."
"There is surely a touch of truth to it. Yet I wonder if it can endure in the face of reality?"
"I could say the same thing to you,"
"What do you mean?"
"There is no mistaking that this town has many raising their voices against the Debau Company's tyranny. To them, I am extremely useful."
"Meaning, you'll interfere with us councilors keeping the people in line?"
"No, surely that will not be necessary. If I may say so, the truth is on our side, and popular will follows the truth. The current Debau Company must be stopped."
"I see. If so, that too is fine. Go ahead and try."
"You are not selling me?"
"That I can do at any time. If you weren't a hare... well, I'd have to think about it."
"Do you acknowledge our freedom, then?"
"Do as you like. Preach your gospel to the masses and guide them, like a missionary of the Church. Raise your banner and invade other lands, just like many lords do."
"But I wonder if you will go to battle in the end."
"Had you been more foolish, this would be a more complicated matter. If you are so wise, it is not my turn on the stage."
"wise"
"It is because there are lords like you that the world does not change."
"Ha-ha-ha. But..."
"Nothing in the world will change. If it was going to change, those with power would have changed it long ago."
"And how much do you intend to sell this town for?"
"Money? Ha-ha, money is it? If they paid money that would be good, but..."
"This is a town where only furs and amber pass through. The craftsmen have all left. No one stays here; everyone just moves right by. No doubt the fools will carry their weapons and go beyond the town. But beyond here are only deep, treacherous snowy mountains. Many difficulties will assail them. Their footprints shall stretch a ways, but finally, even those shall be buried by snow. All pass through but go only to their end. No one stays. The only thing that piles up, like sediment, is time."
"So, you are a poet."
"Prattle,"
"But do not underestimate the power of money."
"I see. Well, then, if you will excuse me."
"Millike"
"Do you have a plan?"
"I do."
"I am, despite it all, the former treasurer of the Debau Company. I have a grasp of what the company needs and lacks to continue operating. If we can assemble and organize the humans of this town and get them to close the gates, it should be enough to force the company to the negotiating table."
"They should no longer have the funds to fight a siege."
"Just as we were doing, they are using the profits from issuing new currency to bind together the lords, the mercenaries, and the townspeople. However, there is an overwhelming lack of base metal with which to issue the currency; it shall take some time until they can issue it. They need to melt down lower quality silver coins and reforge them at a higher purity level. Then, what do you think will happen if they must continue to pay lords and mercenaries in new, freshly minted, high-value currency for the sake of war? What will happen if the currency is not distributed to the travelers and peasants of the northlands that want it?"
"Based on my memory of all the company's accounts, I have deduced that the betrayal of the Hugo Mercenary Company and the dispatch of the captain of a thousand have now placed them in a very difficult situation, at the very limit of their ability to raise funds."
"That, therefore, is why they are creating the conditions for immediate surrender. And if we surrender without a fight, the Debau Company saves itself a vast amount of war expenditures, and they can behave as if their funds are unlimited in the future as well. This is far too outlandish a scheme for the sake of a single wounded treasurer and a small mercenary company, even an elite one. In a manner of speaking, it is the same technique of defeating one's foe with a paper tower that Debau and I used ourselves."
"Therefore, it is a matter of whether we can get the town gates closed or not. If we can get them closed, we force them to the table. If we surrender without a fight, we play right into their hands."
"From a certain merchant, I have heard the words trade war."
"What I do as a traveling merchant is trade. There is no place for me here."
"It seems you had a conversation?"
"He said, if you can do it, do it."
"Are you going to laugh?"
"I shall not. I am somewhat envious, however."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"What is it?"
"The words you spoke to Master Millike were marvelous. I shall never forget them. Having realized this truth, I am sure your store shall be a most prosperous one."
"... Thank you very much."
New Convo:

"Lawrence."
"What is it?"
"Grab onto me for a moment."
"Now grip as hard as you can."
"Hard?"
"You should be all right, then."
"Ah, er?"
"If you can grip this strongly, 'tis enough. If you stay properly rested, there shall be no problems."
"We're leaving...?"
"Aye. We're leaving."
"Yes. First, perhaps a return to Lenos?"
"That town again...? Aren't there any other lively towns?"
"If we go south, there are many. On the trade route I was on before meeting you, there are plenty of towns as large as Ruvinheigen. The season will improve from here; it'll be a pleasant trip."
"Well, I had best go arrange the luggage and food."
"Mm? Ah, ahh, please do."
"I have had quite enough of your hand. Coin, coin!"
"Now, then, what shall I buy?"
"Don't spend too much."
"This is how wolves do it."
"Well, then, here are the gold coins you entrusted to us."
"Also, the forbidden book."
"Thank you very much. Concerning the book..."
"Do as you like. I shall do as I please."
"Understood. Then... hmm?"
"Is this from Holo?"
"From the bird. I was to return it without anyone knowing, so I was unable to until now."
"This is..."
"Thank you... thank you for bringing this to me..."
"Thanks to Mr. Luis's courage, it would seem."
"Please, wait."
"No matter which way things turn, you will probably learn sometime, somewhere. So, if possible, I would like for you to learn of it through me."
"...!"
"Mr. Hilde."
"Would you show us the symbol?"
"Of course. That is, after all, what I really wanted to show you."
"Please, always remember the merchants of the northlands wrapped in a ridiculous dream."
"Now, then, I am sorry to have detained you so long. May the grace of the sun be with both of you on your journey."
"Master Hilde!"
"Master Hilde, m-message from Master Moizi. He says a Debau Company envoy has come into the town."
"-!"
"Envoy? An envoy you say?"
"Er, and Master Hilde..."
"Is there something else?"
"The envoy wishes to negotiate with Master Hilde."
"It's bad if you leave right now. All of Millike's soldiers are already heading this way."
"Understood. We will lie low for a while and go when the time is right."
"Please do so. I do not believe they will be so absurd as to put us in irons. Should such a thing happen, at least you two must escape."
"But-but... no, perhaps...?"
"If you go and meet him you will know,"
"There are many mysteries that cannot be resolved by simply gazing at them. You had the rug pulled from under you once before. Do you intend to repeat the same mistake?"
"... Thank you very much."
"Hmph."
"That fool,"
"Males are all fools,"
"Is Master Hilde Schnau here?!"
"You demand dialogue with us! What is the meaning of this, bearing arms in the presence of an envoy?"
"Master Hilde Schnau, is it?"
"Indeed, I am."
"We have accepted an envoy from the Debau Company. He wishes to establish a place for negotiations with Master Schnau."
"I, too, desire this."
"Very well. Now, then, the envoy from the Debau Company is..."
"I know this man well."
"Emanuel Yanarkin..."
"It seems that you are well, Master Hilde Schnau."
"If it pleases you, we will go to my mansion for the negotiations."
"I have nothing to be ashamed of. I do not mind having this debate right here."
"... How about you, Master Schnau?"
"... I do not mind."
"Very well. Let it be done here and now, then."
"Are they planning something?"
"I know not. Logically this should favor the hare."
"But that gloomy-eyed lord told the hare, 'You are wise, so there is no place for me on the stage.' If by that, he meant the comfort margin he is showing here, then..."
"We have been misunderstood!"
"We are not the ones bringing harm to this land!"
"How dare you speak so? Where, then, is the army under your command headed? Is it to the land beyond that continues to infinity? Have you confused consuming every single ear of wheat with profit? That you have brought an army with you is proof of your selfish avarice!"
"Therein lies the misunderstanding."
"Misunderstanding? Misunderstanding, he says?"
"What kind of misunderstanding would this be? Or are you saying you are such a coward that you require an army of this size to protect you?"
"You've fallen into my trap."
"That is correct!"
"We are not the ones bringing harm to this land! To the contrary, it is we who require a great army to protect us! Behold!"
"Ohhh."
"I am no intellectual agitating people through my mouth alone! I am a merchant! Merchants use goods and money to bring happiness to people! I am not like the man there who deceives people through words alone!"
"Ohh, silver coins... they're real!"
"Real silver coins!"
"Go! Take it! The Debau Company dispenses silver coins to the people!"
"I am a merchant! Merchants do no harm! We dispense these silver coins here for our business! We know that to dispense silver coins brings prosperity, which brings us new silver coins in turn! If you think I deceive you, pick up a coin and look at it! They're real! Real silver coins!"
"Wait, everyone. Wait!"
"Come, you, do not do anything stupid!"
"It is stupid! Oh yes, it's stupid! But I can't just watch like this! I can't just let them win like this!"
"'Tis fate,"
"There are things that cannot be changed. Aye, there are many such things in this world..."
"'Tis by enduring it I have come this far."
"And still..."
"Even I could not have endured it without you. I was able to walk forward because you pulled my hand. So, come."
"The world shall not change. But we have both gained something precious. Come, you... we should be satisfied with that."
"Shit!"
"...?!"
"Come, you..."
"Do it already, then. I shall quiet the howling ones."
"...!"
"I am quite benevolent myself."
"Someday you shall repay this debt to me."
"Now, then, please."
"Aoooooooooooo!!"
"The Debau Company's impropriety must be redressed!"
"The Debau Company's impropriety must be redressed!"
"The Debau Company's impropriety must be redressed!"
"Wh-what are you saying! Impropriety?! Based on what evidence?!"
"Have you no confidence, Lawrence? Evidence is support for your case, no more."
"This is evidence! A Debau Company bill of exchange!"
"Wh-what is...! What evidence of anything is that?!"
"What are you saying, you who fling about coins deposited in Lesko for bills of exchange! That money was entrusted to you by others!"
"I think we should send a fast horse to Lesko and confirm the situation! This is a life-and-death issue for this town, indeed, all the northlands! There's no reason to rush a decision whatsoever! Or is it that you wish to dazzle the townspeople with stolen money!"
"Th-this is absurd! Of course this is not borrowed money! If we did such a thing, th-the Church would surely be angry! But, we, the Debau Company, bear the seal of the Church as well! The Church and the lords are with us because what we are doing is just!"
"Then...!"
"You truly are a fool."
"But you are not alone any longer."
"My lines."
"... Then, I ask you..."
"Then, I ask you!"
"While you, fling silver coins about..."
"While you fling silver coins about!"
"You speak of... prosperity giving rise to new silver coins..."
"You speak of prosperity giving rise to new silver coins!"
"But these are not the Church's teachings... for silver coins are silver coins. And if silver coins do give rise to anything, that..."
"That would be interest! The Church does not approve of interest! You, the thief, misusing the name of the Church! What is your objective?! Or is it on purpose that you anger the Church, invade a blameless land, bringing about destruction?!"
"Hff, hff."
"Well done."
"S-silence, silence! Si- No, it's not like that... listen to me, I-I only want to... to profit, profiting, is delight..."
"You who have just witnessed the courage of my comrades! Close the gates! A great army invades!"
"D-don't do anything rash! If you close the gates, th-they'll blame me. They'll kill me! They'll rip me to pieces!"
"That you would sit quietly in a store from here on truly was just a dream..."
"I keep getting pulled along by no-good males."
"But you love me anyway, don't you?"
"Certainly, that is where the problem lies."
New Convo:

"And so, we must set alight the furnace of this town that has gone unused for so long."
"All right! Move away from there! Put those holding rods around there... Hey, you! Dig that hole properly!"
"It'll be finished by dawn, won't it?"
"I think it will be all right."
"I'm impressed that you thought of this, though."
"I slapped my knee when I realized, you really are resolving things with money."
"I never had any sane notion you'd be using that stamp to remint gold lumione of all things."
"However, it is thanks to you and Miss Holo that I am able to take command like this."
"Mr. Lawrence."
"What is it?"
"Would you not come to the Debau Company?"
"If I accepted that, every day would be an adventure, wouldn't it?"
"Yes. I guarantee it."
"That's why I can't."
"If I do that, no one will believe another word I say. I must respectfully decline."
"You are probably right."
"If only I had taken the form of a girl..."
"If you took the form of a girl, Holo would probably eat you."
"... I am a hare, after all."
"A pity. Incidentally, where are you going?"
"Back to my room. With my leg I can't even step on the bellows; I'll just be in the way."
"Surely that is not so. Everyone is wounded here. Besides, it is you, Mr. Lawrence, who silenced Yanarkin. If it had not been for you, even Mr. Luward and his men could not have-"
"If I get in too deep, I'll never be able to pull back."
"I understand. I shall call you when we are ready, then."
"Please do."
"Mm? Where are you going, you?"
"That's my line."
"I was given some wine. I thought I would come have a drink with you."
"I imagined I'd just be in the way, so why not go back to the inn."
"A fine decision by your standards."
"... You said someone gave you that wine? Who?"
"... Goodness... What's his name, you know, that fool."
"You don't mean Millike?"
"Right, right."
"But why would Millike have wine sent over?"
"'Tis no problem, is it? Or do you suspect it is poisoned?"
"I suspect no such thing, but..."
"Walk."
"Come, you. There are many stories and many circumstances that you know not."
"When Mr. Hilde went off to speak to him the second time... Come to think of it, you weren't around?"
"And I was being kind in not saying it,"
"Kind?"
"But perhaps it shall serve as a good lesson,"
"In the end, that fool was protecting a grave."
"Protecting a... grave?"
"Aye. I know not the details, but several decades ago the female he was mated to fell ill and died. As she was born in this town, in this town she rests. He did not have the power to save her, but he hoped she could at least rest in peace. So, Lawrence, does this story not remind you of something similar?"
"So, then you..."
"Aye. Well, I'd firmly grasped your hand right in front of a man like that. Small wonder he gave us those dark looks."
"But, well, that fool sent word he wished to speak with me through that fool of a hare. "I did say I was going out."
"I told him... find your next female already, you fool."
"..."
"You really are a charming one."
"But having said that, I did wander about a wheat field like that, yes? And you, as soon as you start to build a nest, you run off all over the place."
"So, because we talked like that, he went out of his way to send wine, which arrived just earlier."
"The two aren't connected."
"The two are not connected, you say?"
"Wah!"
"...?"
"We have arrived."
"So, you."
"I thought you were not going to lay a hand on anything dangerous again?"
"hmph,"
"Well, certainly it could not be helped there."
"However, it is a violation of your promise nonetheless. If you get wrapped up in something, it stirs your deep benevolence so that you can't help but stick your nose into it. Certainly, I had fun helping you there beside the window, but come, you, it shall not always go well like that. If you do not take that to heart, you shall truly suffer for it."
"And even if you nod now, I cannot trust that..."
"But having said that, I am well aware you are honest to the point of foolishness. Therefore, I believe there may be some fault in my methods."
"...?"
"You seem the sort who will uphold a contract, if not a promise."
"Huh?"
"I have no idea what that cheeky little girl was thinking to say such a thing but..."
"She said when 'tis time to take our vows, she would stand witness anytime. The fool."
"So, how about it?"
"Mm, I forgot something important."
"Ah?"
"Er, ah..."
"Can you not make such a face?"
"Well, it is the truth I forgot something important. Before forming a new vow, we must carry out the old."
"The old?"
"Were you not to bring me to Yoitsu?"
"R-right..."
"Besides, you have said it before."
"Ah?"
"That there is very deep meaning in bringing one's partner home with you."
"Yoitsu. Yoitsu, huh?"
"Indeed. We have postponed it too long."
"Very well... however."
"Mm?"
"We can at least drink together, can't we?"
"Hmm... well, not that you have the fortitude to keep up with my drinking, after all."
"You truly have no mind for subtlety..."
"Take care not to drink too much."
"To think the day would come when you would warn me about that."
"Fool."
"Decades from now no one will read your book, but mine shall be the basis for a hundred others"
"Spice"
"Wolf"