
"..."
New Convo:

"... At this rate, it looks like we'll make it through without being frozen."
"That's easy for you to say bundled up in that blanket while I shiver away here, reins in hand."
"Hmph. 'Tis my cold heart. It needs must be kept warm,"
"There 'tis. Like a piece of burnt rice floating in stew,"
"There's something I should say, just to make sure you understand."
"Mm?"
"I know you visited this place long ago, but you may have forgotten, so I'll say it again: Lenos is a town of lumber and fur."
"Quite."
"Will you be angry if some of those furs are wolf pelts?"
"I've eaten mice, me, and been eaten by wolves!"
"Hmph,"
"There is the hunter, and the hunted. And besides, you humans do far worse things. Do you not even buy and sell your fellow man?"
"This is true. The slave trade is both necessary and very profitable."
"Just as you can accept that as the custom of your world, we can be calm toward those who are hunted. And besides, what if the position was switched?"
"Still, I suppose seeing one's fellows hunted before one's very eyes is hardly an easy thing,"
"And you were nice enough to get flustered when I was hunted by another man,"
"Ah, yes, I certainly did,"
"Whence this uncaring affect?"
"Well..."
"It's embarrassing."
"Embarrassing, eh?"
"Entirely."
"Enough!"
"Is this what they call a gate-front town, then?"
"That sort of thing happens around churches, yes, especially when the church has been plopped in the middle of the wilderness somewhere. It would be strange, though, to be constantly setting up shop outside the town walls."
"Hmm. It hardly seems as though these people are engaging in trade."
"Some kind of trouble again, perhaps?"
"again"
"And precisely whose fault has that been?"
"It may be true that since meeting me you've had a few scrapes, but one can hardly claim that they were directly my fault."
"I-"
"I will grant the first one - well, part of that might have been owing to me, but its true cause was your avarice, which was wholly to blame for the next disaster. And our last problem was simple bad luck. Am I wrong?"
"I suppose I understand what you're saying..."
"Mm."
"But I simply cannot agree. It's true that you weren't necessarily there to trigger our troubles, but..."
"I can see all too clearly how you don't want to agree with me, even though I am hardly the root cause of all these troubles."
"'Tis because you always use me as the basis for your actions - hence you always feel I'm pulling you this way and that."
"Heh. Always stubborn,"
"Mmph."
"Some stew would be nice,"
"Aye, with this cold. Depending on the price, I'd take a stew with a proper thick flour broth."
"Ho, ho! Sometimes the sweet smell of milk surpasses that of the finest wine."
"A stew made with the vegetables of the season would be especially good,"
"Vegetables? Do you not understand the flavor of delicious stewed meat floating in the creamy broth?"
"They say fine foods can be bad for the eye and bad for the tongue."
"Oh? And how bad for my heart do you think it was to go so many centuries without so much as a taste?"
"Perhaps once I've consulted my coin purse."
"'Tis not as though I would place it at the very pinnacle of creation, but is that not an unreachable state, not some matter of relative merit? What say you?"
"Oh, indeed."
"If we are to talk of that which falls short of being inherently superior and that which exceeds its humble origins to become great, I should think the latter more worthy of respect. Am I wrong?"
"... Not at all."
"Yes, well, if the choice is between a nobleman with no fame, no charisma, no assets, naught but his lineage, and a canny commoner who's amassed wealth and fame, then surely it's the latter whom I'd respect,"
"Oh, just a cheap wolf skin."
"So then,"
"Oh, uh, yes?"
"Will we make the inn soon?"
"Just ahead around that corner,"
"You staying or selling goods?"
"Staying. Two of us."
"Which do you want, a bright room or a warm room?"
"What else is there but a warm room?"
"Right, I'll take the horse around to the stables. You go on in and talk to the innkeeper - that older gentleman - and tell him that. He'll show you to a room."
"Mm."
"You two get along now,"
"Next year, I'm going south on pilgrimage,"
"Third floor. Window side."
"Right, third floor - wait, window side?"
"Window side,"
"I think your tail is lovely; it's warm with fine fur."
"Just so long as no one else comes to dry their clothes,"
"..."
"Well then,"
"I'm off to tend to my pelt,"
"Have to make sure it'll fetch a good price, after all,"
"I'm sure 'tis worth a king's ransom."
"Aye, a price so high none will buy it,"
"Has anyone so far?"
"Good morning,"
"... Aye,"
"What comes next, then?"
"Well, first we've got to collect whatever stories about you we can find."
"Mm. Stories of me and of the whereabouts of Yoitsu..."
"Just like in Kumersun, we need to find a chronicler,"
"I'll just leave that to you. You know better than me how to accomplish the thing... What? What is it?"
"So if I know how to accomplish the thing, what do you know?"
"There's a saying that goes: 'He who knows how to do something is the servant of he who knows why that thing must be done.'"
"Mm. I see. And I do know why it is that you work so gallantly."
"The men of old spoke true,"
"If I'm your master, then I suppose I should give you a reward."
"A reward?"
"Aye. Such as, hmm..."
"What is it you desire?"
"Nothing in particular,"
"Hmph,"
"It would be nice if you were a bit more pleasant,"
"So now you treat me like a child?"
"Not at all. Children actually do as they're told, for one."
"Anyway, first I suppose we'll ask the innkeeper here. He may be old, but he's still the master of an inn."
"You're coming along, right?"
"Aye, even if you slapped my wrist,"
"Should I clap my hands now, the spell I've cast upon you may well be broken!"
"Huh? What am I doing here? Oh, that's right - this is Lenos, city of lumber and fur. I should stock up on furs and head to the next town,"
"Oh, la, are you a traveling merchant? I've a good eye, me, for judging the quality of furs,"
"Oh ho! You've a discerning eye, 'tis true. But can you judge the quality of a person?"
"I've an evil spell cast upon me."
"I suppose I'd best not clap, so as to avoid breaking it,"
"You've already clapped once."
"So you're saying the spell's coming undone?"
"So then, will you cast another spell upon me so that I do not wake?"
"Will this do, milady?"
"Come, let's go,"
"That's a spell too strong, foolish boy."
"Just when are you going to become properly flustered?"
"Mm, indeed. When you stop doing such things, I suppose."
"You've become quite clever, you have."
"Mm, perhaps,"
"Yes, you've certainly developed a way with words. Whoever has been teaching you, I wonder?"
"No - it just came to me in the moment, that's all."
"In the moment?"
"That's even better."
"When I stop doing such things, eh?"
"Whatever is the matter?"
"What's this? Your circulation seems to have improved,"
"Goodness, there's no need to be ashamed of such sweet, childish words."
"You surely are adorable, you are."
"A chronicler, you say?"
"Aye. Or someone else who would know the old tales of the town."
"There's a man named Rigolo who does such things... but unfortunately he's at the Council of Fifty right now. I surely doubt he'll take visitors."
"The Council of Fifty?"
"Did you not see the state of things outside the town...?"
"We saw. The merchant encampment, yes? If that's connected with the Council of Fifty, then is there some trouble within the town?"
"It's the furs, you see,"
"The furs?"
"Rigolo's the secretary of the council,"
"And you're looking for people who know old tales, then,"
"Er, yes. That would be fine. Do you know of any?"
"Bolta the tanner's grandmother was a wise old woman... but she died in the plague four years gone."
"And there are no others?"
"Others? Mm... the old man of the Latton Company, but no, the heat of the summer last year did him in..."
"I suppose the town's old wisdom only exists as written word now,"
"So that means we've no course but to go to Mr. Rigolo and have him show us the chronicles?"
"I suppose so... The months and years weather even stone buildings, to say nothing of the writings of men. 'Tis a dreadful thing..."
"Shall we find something to eat?"
"You ought to build your vocabulary,"
"..."
"... Pardon,"
"Seemed a bit surprised to see me,"
"Surely he doesn't suspect you're not human."
"I did not get that sense from her. Perhaps she was merely taken aback by my comeliness."
"Surely not,"
"Wait,"
"She?"
"Hmm?"
"That was a woman?"
"What exactly makes you think it is acceptable to be standing beside me and staring thus at another female?"
"Must you be so direct? A more roundabout complaint would be far more charming."
"You're such a dunce you'd never catch on unless I spoke plainly,"
"So, what shall we do next?"
"Will it be difficult to meet that man - whatever was his name?"
"Rigolo or some such. If he's the secretary of the council, it may well be difficult, though that may depend on exactly what the council is doing..."
"'Tis clear enough from your face that you're desperate to know what that meeting is about."
"Is it?"
"So we'll instead loaf about town until the meeting is adjourned, I expect?"
"The wisewolf's powers of observation are keen indeed. I'm dying to know what's going on with this town. Not just that, I-"
"You want to turn it into profit."
"Whatever it is, it's serious enough that they're passing out these wooden plaques. Something interesting must be happening,"
"Still, though, a warning-"
"Hmm?"
"Try to restrain yourself."
"I will,"
"I wonder about that,"
"Shall we see the sights of the town, then?"
"I suppose so."
"Understood, milady."
"So what sights are there to see? It's changed so much that in truth I hardly remember ever coming here."
"Let's go to the docks. I hear it's only recently that ships have become so important. It won't be as large as seaside docks, but I daresay, it's still a highlight."
New Convo:

"Well, I suppose this is how it goes,"
"Hmm?"
"Nothing. Don't spill that."
"Mmm."
"Still, at a glance it doesn't look like there's any particular problem with the town,"
"From far away, the forest can seem calm, even when two wolf packs are in a fierce battle for territory within it."
"Even with your eyes and ears, you cannot tell that from afar?"
"Can you see over there?"
"The man's angry,"
"Oh?"
"It seems the tax on the ship's cargo was too high, and he does not want to hand over the goods at the original price. Something about a head price?"
"A hostage tax. Because ships heading up the river are essentially hostages of the landlord that owns that section of the river."
"Mm. In any case, the skinny fellow's reply is this: 'The town's in crisis because the military did not hold its northern campaign this year.' He's saying they should be grateful to get any money at all."
"'In that case, you and those furs can just wait on the outcome of the meeting,'"
"There are many conversations like this one. I'd say... four. Taxes are too high. Northern campaign. Town imports - and so on."
"Now that you mention it... I reckon there's no way a town founded on distribution wouldn't feel the effects of a canceled northern campaign. That's how I got into trouble back in Ruvinheigen. But what's 49/237 the relationship between that and the encampment of merchants outside the town?"
"You want seconds?"
"I daresay the wine you just ordered was more for your sake than my own."
"Mm?"
"I become drunk on liquor, but your liquor is something different entirely."
"Aye, but it takes coin to buy liquor, while becoming drunk on the business possibilities right in front of your eyes is free."
"And you're surely thinking that if I'll stop my howling or even deign to assist you, a drink or two would be a small price to pay, are you not?"
"Ah, though 'tis amusing to watch you puzzle things over, I'll sit here drinking and watch from the side,"
"I imagine I should glance at you every so often to make sure you haven't disappeared?"
"... Not bad."
"Why, thank you,"
"fish"
"Are you open?"
"I just patched a hole. Have a look?"
"I'll pass. You know what they say, 'eyes like daggers' and all. If I look too closely, I'm liable to open holes anew."
"So the reason my apron wears thin is from customers staring at it rather than me?"
"I'm sure they're merely being thoughtful - they don't wish to ruin your beauty by staring a new nostril into your nose, after all."
"Oh? That's a shame. That might let me sniff out suspicious customers a bit more easily,"
"I guess it's true that out-of-town customers really are different. So what'll it be? Wine? A meal?"
"Two orders of fish tail. Wrapped, please."
"I'm not in a hurry,"
"Perhaps some wine, then?"
"We've barley and grape wine, as well as pear."
"Pear wine at this time of year?"
"For some reason, it never went bad in storage. Oops-"
"Pear, then."
"Coming right up! Just a moment if you please."
"Here you are. The rest will take a bit of time, but that will give you a chance to ask any questions you might have."
"Merchants coming in here at this time of day really only have one thing on their minds. If it is something I can answer, I'll be more than happy to,"
"I'll pay first."
"And?"
"Ah, yes, well, it's nothing serious. The town seems a bit different from usual. Suppose I was to ask about the encampment of merchants just outside the walls."
"Oh, them. They all deal in furs or fur-related products."
"Furs?"
"Quite. About half of them have come from afar to buy up furs. The other half deal in the materials needed for tanning and treating furs and skins. Let's see..."
"Lime and alum?"
"That sounds right, yes."
"And you wanted to know why all those merchants are camped out there, right? Well, right now, all the leaders of the town are meeting to decide whether or not to sell furs to them. In the meantime, buying and selling furs is forbidden. So naturally, the craftsmen don't know whether there's any point in buying any of the supplies they need for tanning, so - that's where we are right now."
"So what caused this?"
"That thing, you know - where lots of people come through in the wintertime."
"The northern campaign."
"Right, that. It was canceled, so they say none of the usual people are coming through to buy leather clothes. Usually there would be a lot more people in this city this time of year."
"I understand that the usual people that come through to buy leather clothing aren't around this year, but shouldn't they still sell to the merchants outside of town?"
"Knights and mercenaries, they're free with their coin. But the merchants that come to town are as miserly as they come."
"I've been given things, overly frilly dresses like some nobleman's daughter would wear, really expensive ones. But..."
"Oh,"
"I see now. Before it's made into clothing, skins are surprisingly cheap. But once they're made into clothing, they won't sell - the money coming into the town will drop,"
"Well done."
"So far, you could hear this from any floozy in any tavern in town,"
"One must treat generous customers properly, after all,"
"Let's keep what I'm about to tell you between the two of us, shall we?"
"There's an eight-or nine-tenths chance that the merchants outside town will be banned from buying furs, though I'm sure the craftsmen and fur brokers will be angry."
"How do you know this?"
"I'm a simple barmaid, so I care little for the price of furs, but merchants like you enjoy such things with your ale, do you not?"
"Aye, enough that we sometimes drink too much,"
"A good tavern sends all its patrons home drunk. I'd be pleased if you were among them."
"Well, I've drunk my wine, so I'm sure I'll feel it soon."
"Ah, it seems your food is ready,"
"By the way, sir-"
"Yes?"
"Do you have a wife?"
"My coin purse's strings are not tied. However... my reins are firmly held,"
"My but that's frustrating. I'm sure she's a fine person, too."
"If you've the chance, do bring her by the tavern,"
"Aye,"
"Wait just a moment, then. I'll go get your food."
"My thanks."
"You'll be in a tough spot if you don't sell your furs,"
"Shall we buy them up for you? Though that alone will not avail you forever. Shall we come next year and the year after that?"
"The coin involved must be incredible,"
"..."
"... What's the matter?"
"I shan't abide it,"
"Huh?"
"I shan't abide my tail being sold,"
"I'm no hunter,"
"Oh no? You looked as though you were ready to sell anything you possibly could."
"Yes, well, I'm a merchant. I buy from one person to sell to another. It's a basic principle."
"trust"
"ethics"
"So no, I will not be taking your tail from you. Though when summer comes, should you decide to shear some of your fur off, I'll happily collect and sell that,"
"Hmph. So what is that?"
"This? This is... indeed. If you can guess from scent alone what part of what animal this is from, I'll buy you as much of your favorite foods for dinner as you want."
"Oh ho."
"I think there's some garlic in there... but you should be fine."
"I'm sure no proud wisewolf would be thinking of sneaking a look inside the package while my back is turned,"
"So have you figured it out?"
"Patience,"
"Well, now."
"Have you figured it out?"
"Quite."
"So what's the answer?"
"I must say it seems a bit unfair, given the conditions you proposed."
"You should have said so in the first place,"
"I suppose so..."
"So the answer?"
"I don't know the name of the creature, but it's a large rodent tail, is it not?"
"I told you it seemed a bit unfair,"
"Y-you knew?"
"If you'd accused me of opening the package and sneaking a look, I was thinking of ordering so much food for dinner you'd break down in tears, but I suppose I shall show mercy."
"I'm a wisewolf, don't you forget it. There's nothing in this world I don't know,"
"It's not quite accurate to say I knew,"
"Mmph... yes, indeed,"
"The master of this inn said something like this, did he not?"
"The months and years weather even stone buildings."
"To say nothing of memories,"
"Do you know what lingers longest in memory?"
"'Tis scent, you know, that stays longer than all else."
"We forget things we've seen and heard so easily, but scents alone remain clear and distinct."
"I had no memory of this town,"
"To be quite honest, it was a bit worrisome."
"You weren't sure whether you really had ever come here?"
"But this food - I remember it vividly. It's such a strange creature after all, so even in the past, it was considered special. They'd put each one caught on a spit and roast them magnificently."
"I wondered if that's what you brought back, but when I smelled it, I nearly cried from the memories - and that was the turning point."
"So you did this on purpose?"
"Are you saying I'm the sort who would take advantage of another's goodwill?"
"You take advantage of me all the time,"
"So then,"
"I shan't forget this scent, either."
"Nor will I,"
"You sound a dunce when you say it so. I'll not forget that, either."
"Sorry."
"So it seems I have indeed visited this town."
"Then there must be legends of you left here."
"in books somewhere,"
"So then, what news did you manage to hear tell of?"
"This time around is going to be a lot of fun,"
"..."
"A road to the north?"
"Well, in that case,"
"Not much snow this year. I don't know where you're headed, but I don't reckon it'll be too hard."
"I'm making for Nyohhira, as it happens."
"Heading all the way into pagan country, eh?... Well, I suppose that's merchants for you, carrying money bags over their shoulder and heading off anywhere."
"Aye, and we throw them away on our deathbeds,"
"So why bother earning it in the first place? Gaining it only to throw it away..."
"You don't ask the same question when you clean a room, do you?"
"Heh,"
"Fair enough,"
"Are you leaving soon? I seem to recall you giving me a good amount of coin for your stay..."
"No, I expect to wait until the Council of Fifty has finished their meeting."
"... I see. You wanted to see Rigolo. You asked about a chronicler this morning, as I recall. That's a word I've not heard in some time. Hardly anyone looks to the past these days..."
"Well, if you're heading north, 'twould be better to leave sooner. Your horse should be able to get you part of the way, but beyond that... you'd want a longhair and a sleigh. If you're in a hurry, that is."
"There was a longhair in the stable, wasn't there?"
"Aye, its master is a man from the north. I reckon he knows the route quite well."
"His name?"
"Huh. He's been coming here for some time, but I've never asked his name. He's fatter every year, too. It's quite clear in my mind. Strange... I suppose these things happen..."
"He's a fur merchant from the north,"
"He's all over town at the moment... but if I see him, I'll pass your questions on."
"I'd be very grateful."
"Aye. But if you keep waiting for the Council of Fifty to finish, you're liable to be here 'til spring,"
"Will the meeting take so long?"
"People's lives tend up and down, and so do the towns that they live in. After all, those towns are just groups of people."
"It's in people's nature to resist fate, I think. Just like how we seek forgiveness after making a mistake."
"It's hard to argue with that... It's been pleasant talking with you. This is your third time at the inn, yes? What's your name?"
"Kraft Lawrence,"
"Kraft Lawrence, eh? I'm Arold Ecklund. In the old days, I'd make you some fine leather strap work, but these days all I can offer is a quiet night."
"That's more than enough,"
"You didn't ask me until my fifth visit. You ask him his name so soon, Mr. Arold?"
"That's because I didn't talk with you until the fifth visit,"
"And it's so rare that you open that mouth of yours. Are you as sociable as I am, then?"
"Perhaps,"
"You there,"
"Yes?"
"We should talk. You have business with Rigolo?"
"Yes,"
"Shall we go upstairs?"
"I'll take this,"
"Ha, I knew it. This wine is too good to waste by drinking it warm,"
"You seem like you've got your guard well up. Can I ask why?"
"I'm a traveling merchant who does a lot of business with people I'll never see again. I suppose it's a habit,"
"Female merchants are rare. If one calls me over, I can't help but be on my guard a bit."
"... It's been years since anyone figured that out."
"We passed this morning in front of the inn. My companion has the keen senses of a beast, you see."
"One shouldn't underestimate a woman's intuition. Though I suppose I'm not one to talk."
"I learn that lesson every day."
"Name's Fleur Bolan. But Fleur's not much for intimidation, so I go by Eve."
"I'm Kraft Lawrence."
"Kraft? Or Lawrence?"
"In business, Lawrence."
"Call me Eve. I'm none too fond of Bolan, and I know all too well how I look to men when I wear makeup and a wig, and I don't like that sort of compliment, either."
"I'd planned to hide it, if I could,"
"I'm really not a particularly retiring person. If anything, I'm talkative and quite courteous, if I do say so myself."
"You're an interesting fellow. I can see why the old man likes you,"
"Nice of you to say so. But I've only exchanged the briefest of pleasantries with you, so I've no idea why you would be interested in me."
"Merchants don't get infatuated that easily, so unfortunately - not quite. But you're no fool, you know this. Anyway, the reason I talked to you is simple. I just wanted someone to talk to."
"And the reason you chose me for that particular honor is...?"
"One reason would be the fact that old Arold likes you. He's got a good eye for people. Another reason would be your companion, the one who saw through my disguise."
"My companion?"
"Yes. Your companion. A girl, yes?"
"It's one thing when I'm negotiating, but hiding the fact that I'm a woman while making chitchat is no easy thing. I know I'm unusual. And it's not like I don't understand why someone would want me to take off the cowl sometimes,"
"This is going to sound like a compliment, but if you were to take it off while you were drinking with some fellow merchants, I'm sure they'd love it."
"Like I said, I think about who I can chat with, and in the end, you need to be either an old geezer or with a woman."
"You don't see merchants traveling with women very often. Clergy, perhaps, or the odd artisan or minstrel couple. But none of them have anything interesting to say to a merchant like me."
"Well, there are quite a few circumstances around my companion."
"And I won't be nosy. The two of you seem used to travel and don't seem connected by money, so I figured you'd be safe to talk to. That's all."
"Anyway, that's about the size of it, but you can't just walk up to somebody and say, 'Hey, how about a chat?' That's why I mentioned Rigolo's name, but it wasn't just talk. You want to see him, right?"
"Yes, as soon as I can."
"Might I ask why?"
"I've heard Rigolo is the town's chronicler. I'd like to ask him to let me see any of the old tales of Lenos."
"Now that's a strange reason. And here I was sure you'd want information on the fur trade."
"Well, I am a merchant, so I wouldn't pass that information up if I could get it. But it's dangerous, and my companion doesn't wish it."
"It's true that the man's study is piled high with volumes passed down over the generations. His dream is to be able to spend his days reading them, I hear. He's always going on about how he wants to resign his position as secretary to the Council of Fifty."
"Is that so?"
"Quite. He's not a very sociable fellow to begin with, but his position means he knows all the ins and outs of the council, so there's no end of people trying to cozy up to him. If you tried to just go and see him now, he'd give you the evil eye and send you away at the gate."
"I see,"
"Oh, indeed. So if that's what you're interested in, I do quite a bit of trade with the church here. Rigolo normally works as a scribe for the church, you see. I've known him for some time."
"It would certainly be of great help to me if you could arrange for me to see those records,"
"Aren't you going to ask me what I trade in?"
"You didn't inquire after the occupation of my companion so I'll extend you the same courtesy."
"Heh-heh-heh. Excellent. Excellent indeed! More than a few times have I hoped to meet a young merchant with a female companion, but I'm truly glad I spoke up, Lawrence! I don't know whether you're as remarkable as you seem, but you're surely not some two-copper peddler."
"I'm honored by your compliments, but I'd ask you to wait a moment before shaking my hand."
"I know you're not some sweaty-palmed fool,"
"Your face has been unreadable from the start. I can see why old man Arold likes you."
"Well then, instead of asking what it is you deal in, might I ask a different question?"
"And what might that be?"
"How much will your introduction fee be?"
"I'll ask for neither coin nor goods."
"All I ask is that you chat with me."
"You're good. But no, it's not a lie. It's only natural you'd think it strange, but someone I can talk to without hiding the fact that I'm a woman - and a merchant, to boot - is worth more than limar gold."
"But less than lumione?"
"I'm a merchant. In the end, money is what matters most,"
"But I don't know what sort your companion is. I prefer my conversations uninterrupted. A sulky companion spoils the wine."
"I don't think that will be a problem."
"Oh? Nothing is more mysterious than the heart of a woman. I myself don't understand a whit of what they talk about."
"Still, I'm here for business. I can't afford to waste time, but if we get along, then I'd be pleased to have your acquaintance. I may look harsh-"
"-But you're actually talkative and sociable, right?"
"Ha, quite right."
"Well, so long as my companion isn't jealous,"
"That's a terrible condition, indeed."
"Quite a cramped street this,"
"I'll admit it's inconvenient,"
"but I like this kind of disorderly place."
"Oh ho."
"You can really feel how it comes out of years and years of change. Just like a beat-up old tool that gradually takes on a different shape over time, turning into something unique."
"Like the way a river changes shape?"
"... I'm sorry to say I don't follow your comparison."
"Mm. In that case... like the way the heart changes shape. The soul, is it called?"
"I suppose so,"
"If we could take it out and get a look at it, I imagine that's what it would look like. The heart becomes scratched and dented and repaired over time, and with one glance, you'd be able to tell your own from others."
"Milady,"
"And what would your soul look like, eh?"
"Mm?"
"No doubt it would be tinged with my color."
"I'd say poisoned is a better word than colored."
"Then 'tis a potent poison, indeed,"
"After all, my smile still knocks you right over."
"So what color is your soul?"
"What color?"
"Hmm,"
"There are many."
"... Oh."
"..."
"So, have you finished your introspection?"
"... You see through just about everything, don't you?"
"I'm no better myself, though."
"..."
"You simply sounded so happy, so desperately happy, to speak with someone without so much as a hint of charm-"
"Would it make sense if I said I enjoyed it as a merchant?"
"Do you want me to ask you which is more important - money or me?"
"To be sure, the reason I would be angry is not one whit different from what you're thinking. 'Tis an utterly selfish, childish notion. But the two of us have our wits; we can speak of this. Thus, I am not angry."
"..."
"What I'm thinking is that it's not fair of me."
"Truly?"
"Truly."
"We head right here."
"Mm."
"So this is the fork in the road."
"How do you resolve your selfish jealousy toward me?"
"My answer is that there is no way to resolve it."
"And it makes you hate yourself."
"Hmph. So we bear right, do we?"
"Still,"
"What?"
"Jealousy and self-hatred, eh? Indeed,"
"Whatever is the matter?"
"Have you figured it out, then?"
"You agonized over the problem, reversed the positions in your head, and arrived at the answer. 'Twas plain as day on your face. But if you'd thought about it a bit, you'd see. When someone comes to you for advice, the answer you think is correct is what you want him or her to be. Which means?"
"You become jealous and agonize over it. Is that what you wish from me, so that you can play the role of offering your hand in consolation? Should I now collapse into charming tears of self-recrimination, pathetically clinging to the hand you so generously offer?"
"Urgh-"
"Hmph. Come, let's go,"
"We can leave it at this,"
"So then,"
"In truth, I'm asking you this simply because I want to tease you, but..."
"Do you want to know how many I counted off?"
"I've been reminded just how small and fragile my own heart is,"
"Well, I have to get my claws into that fragile heart of yours before it freezes solid."
"Well then,"
"I'm told this Rigolo is a difficult character, so let's be careful."
"I suppose this ends our lovely, dreamlike exchange. We're now back to boring reality."
"In that case, feel free to go back to the inn and sleep,"
"Mm... that might be nice. Of course, it wouldn't be sheep that I count as I fall asleep..."
"Oh? So how many men have there been?"
"Men are fools, and I am their king,"
"May I ask who is calling?"
"I believe Eve Bolan explained that we were coming."
"Ah, we have been expecting you. Do come in."
"Please feel free to sit and wait here."
"I'm sorry to have kept you waiting,"
"Mr. Rigolo, we're coming in."
"huh."
"My, what a delightful reaction! Melta, look; they are impressed!"
"Ha-ha-ha, impressive, is it not? With enough effort, I can keep it green year round,"
"Fleur told me of you - said that there were some people with a strange request to make of me."
"... Er, yes... uh, Lawrence - I mean, my name is Kraft Lawrence,"
"My name is Rigolo Dedly. Nice to meet you."
"Likewise, I'm sure."
"Ah, this must be the companion..."
"Name's Holo."
"Well then! That's it for introductions, and I've already gotten you to compliment my garden, so I'm quite satisfied. Was there something I could do for you by way of thanks, then?"
"You may have heard this from Eve Bolan, but we were hoping that you could show us any old tales of Lenos you might have records of."
"Oh ho, so it's true, then. Fleur - er, no, I suppose she goes by Eve among merchants. She's a bit too feisty, that one. Once she gets to know someone, she'll tell them all sorts of things."
"Does that have anything to do with why you're not a stern-faced, long-bearded, old hermit?"
"Seems she's been talking again! Though the hermit part's not necessarily untrue. Lately I've been doing all I can not to see anyone. Bit misanthropic of me."
"I'm a foreign merchant - is it all right for you to be speaking with me?"
"Quite. Your timing is excellent, perhaps even the will of God. Take a look at my clothes; they're like the garments a child leading a funeral procession would wear, are they not? I've just come from the council meeting. They reached a decision and were able to adjourn early."
"Goodness, you really are every bit the merchant that the feisty little minx said you were. Didn't let your guard down for a second, did you?"
"Hmm?"
"When we spend all our time using wiles and tricks, we stop understanding. Just like the back of the back is the front."
"I'm employed as the secretary for the Council of Fifty, you see. I can look at a group of people and perceive the changes in the expressions at a glance. Even if your expression alone doesn't tell me enough, if I 99/237 consider the expressions of your companion, the truth naturally comes to me."
"Ah, 'tis but a parlor trick. If I meant you ill, I wouldn't lay my cards out like this. And even if I could discern your true motives, I'm still unable to convey my own demands. I'd be a failure as a merchant, would I not?"
"... Unfortunately."
"I also don't have any success with the ladies."
"All the old books are in the cellar."
"The back of the back is the front apparently,"
"He was even watching my face..."
"First time I've seen anyone do anything like that."
"Still, he doesn't seem malicious. More like a child. But if you had someone like that at your side, you'd be able to pass your days without any worry at all,"
"Meanwhile, you are full of malice,"
"Are fires common in this town?"
"From time to time. As you may have guessed, my ancestors had the same fear, which is why they built this place."
"By the way,"
"I'm the curious type, so I can't help asking. Why exactly are you searching for these ancient stories?"
"She's searching for her origin."
"Her origin?"
"For a variety of reasons, I'm escorting her to her homeland."
"I see... So you're heading north, then?"
"Yes. We don't know the precise location, so we're trying to pinpoint it based on the stories she knows."
"It's not uncommon for children from the north to stay in this town. It would be best if she could return to her home,"
"You're certainly a glutton for knowledge,"
"These were all we found, so I should think it would be best if you took them with you for the time being."
"I see. Here, let me carry some of those. We'll be skipping meals for three days if we drop them."
"Normally I'd ask that you read them here,"
"But I trust Fleur, and Fleur trusts you, so I shall as well. I cannot say the same for others, though..."
"I certainly understand,"
"But if you drop, burn, lose, or sell them, it's three days without food!"
"I'll protect them as I would protect my most precious cargo, on my honor as a merchant."
"Right then,"
"Just bring them back when you've finished reading. If I'm not here, Melta will be."
"Understood. Again, thank you."
"It's easy to wave when you're not carrying anything."
"Aye, and you'd do well to make sure you're not waved off,"
"One can flatter a pig right up a tree, but flattering a male just makes him lose himself,"
"Oh yes, I'm at such a loss I may well lose my temper,"
"..."
"Hmm?"
"'Tis a good evening, is all,"
"Still, we'd soon turn rotten if we spent every evening thus."
"'Tis saltwater, after all."
"Hmm?"
"Sweet saltwater..."
"Goodness. At any other inn, you'd be scolded by the innkeeper,"
"Only on the first night. After that, they'd give us a hearty laugh, no doubt."
"She drinks that much?"
"As you can see."
"About that fur merchant from the north. I talked with him. Said the snow's light this year, good conditions for travel."
"I appreciate your asking."
"If you want to know more... I forgot to ask his name again."
"It's Kolka Kuus,"
"Ah yes, that was his name."
"That Kuus fellow is staying on the fourth floor. He said he was mostly free in the evenings, so if you want to know more, go ahead and stop by his room."
"Hurry back down."
"..."
"You're awful,"
"What's wrong?"
"..."
"Huh?"
"... Scared,"
"What could you possibly have to be afraid of?"
"Everything's going well right now, is it not? We have the books. We haven't gotten swept up in any trouble. The path to the northlands is unseasonably clear. And"
"we have yet to quarrel."
"You dunce..."
"... What I'm afraid of, it is..."
"This is what I fear."
"Huh?"
"Do you not understand?"
"I don't. Unless... are you afraid of the end of our travels?"
"That is, of course... frightening, yes. This has been the most fun I have had in a great while. But there is something I fear still more..."
"'Tis well if you don't understand. No"
"even more than that, 'twould be troublesome if you did."
"I do not mind if you go downstairs, so long as you do nothing to make me jealous."
"Apparently I have a soft spot for jealous, self-loathing girls."
"I shall sleep now,"
"I'll be downstairs, then,"
"..."
"Did a witch sneeze?"
"I'm a merchant, but not so the old man. Hard to make conversation,"
"I was able to meet with Rigolo thanks to you. He certainly was a melancholy sort,"
"He is, isn't he! There's no helping a man that gloomy."
"I do envy that technique of his, though."
"So you saw that?"
"He likes you. If you could get him to help you with business, you'd be able to strip most merchants naked, don't you think?"
"Unfortunately, he didn't seem inclined."
'"That's because he's got everything he could ever want in that rundown, old place of his. You saw the garden, right?"
"It was incredible. You hardly ever see glass windows that large."
"I'd never be able to handle such a life. I'd go mad, I tell you."
"So did you hear about the meeting?"
"Apparently it's finished,"
"And its conclusion?"
"Unfortunately, we didn't get that far."
"Have you heard anything yourself, Eve?"
"Me? Ha! No, he's completely suspicious of me. Still, whether or not I believe you... hmm. Did those words really come out of his mouth?"
"It may well be the truth,"
"What worries, me, though..."
"Mm?"
"... is why exactly you are pursuing this avenue of conversation in the first place, Eve."
"You certainly get right to the point. Either you've done more than piddling two-copper business somewhere along the line, or you didn't come to do a proper negotiation."
"I'm like the rest,"
"I want to know how I can turn this into a huge gain. That's all. What else would there be?"
"You could be trying to avoid a huge loss."
"People have two eyes, but it's no mean feat to watch two things at once. Though I suppose from a certain perspective, you're right about trying to avoid a loss."
"By which you mean...?"
"I trade in stone statues."
"Of the Holy Mother?"
"Didn't you see the one in Rigolo's place? It's from a port town called Gerube on the western seacoast. I buy them there and sell them at the church here. That was my business. Since it just amounts to transporting and selling stone, there's not much profit in it, but if you can get one blessed by the Church, it'll sell for far more. The pagans are stronger in this region, so when the northern campaign comes through, it brings throngs of people who want to buy statues."
"Unfortunately, I don't see any of that profit, but in exchange, I moved a respectable amount. But that's all wiped out with the cancellation of the northern campaign. I've learned firsthand that no one hangs you out to dry faster than the Church."
"The Church's influence is waning in the south, I hear. I'd been thinking it was time to stop loading my goods on a sinking ship - figured I'd make one last big deal, then make a break for it."
"So,"
"we were just talking about how if I manage to hit it big, we might as well head south."
"Been thinking it's about time for a pilgrimage."
"So, that's how it is,"
"Want to lend me some coin?"
"I've got some very accurate information about the content of the council meeting,"
"I can make all the arrangements. I just need money."
"If I look at the details of the investment and decide the risk is worth the profit - with pleasure."
"It's the fur trade. You'll double your money."
"The Council of Fifty is going to provisionally allow fur sales to merchants."
"What's your source?"
"The Church."
"Even though they turned their back on you?"
"We might have split on bad terms, but everyone knows to leave a few sympathetic contacts behind."
"So what's the deal?"
"The provision will be that anyone buying furs will have to do so with cash."
"So they're not saying 'no sales,' but at the same time, merchants from distant places are hardly carrying significant coin."
"Exactly. But they can't very well return empty-handed, so they'll buy whatever fur they can afford with the miniscule cash they have on hand."
"You seem strangely comfortable talking about this with me."
"If all you care about is making a little extra allowance, then by all means, go do this deal yourself."
"In reality, you don't actually have that much money, do you?"
"I won't disagree."
"Then you shouldn't waste this opportunity. You didn't even know Rigolo before I introduced you. Who in this town would be willing to lend you money?"
"True, but I could head back to a different city and raise the money there. But isn't that what you're counting on me doing anyway by proposing I invest in this opportunity?"
"Naturally, I took a look at you and your companion, the way you paid for the inn, and I figured if you went all in, you'd be good for maybe a thousand pieces of trenni silver. But by the time you get it together, the furs will be bought up is my guess."
"You don't actually think that all those merchants outside of town are just hanging out there separately for no reason, do you?"
"Somebody with real money is using them to make an even bigger profit,"
"Yup. This, friend, is a trade war."
"A trade... war?"
"I guess you don't spend a lot of time near the sea. Go into any tavern in a port town and drink with the merchants there. You'll hear talk of the trade wars, believe me. It's not something that just happens out of nowhere. We're merchants, not bandits. The attacker has to make preparations well in advance."
"Odds are, the merchants camped outside the town are taking guesses at how the council decision is going to go and firming up their 120/237 plans. How many people with money do you think there are in this town?"
"The number of trading firms worth mentioning... maybe twenty, of various sizes. Shops specializing in a particular kind of good... perhaps two or three hundred. Maybe the same number of prosperous craftsmen."
"Roughly, yes. And among those, the question is how many will put their own gain in front of the town's."
"Anyway, if even one of those trading firms chooses treachery, they'll sneak away with all the fur. If they operated through a branch office of another town, it would be easy to hide what they were doing."
"Of course,"
"I doubt a large trading company would turn traitor. Nowadays everything's recorded in account ledgers, so it would be easy to see what they'd done. If they secretly lent money to an outside merchant, it could be traced."
"Even if they had a hidden, unrecorded source of money, the council could stop that with a single line, 'The source of all money used to purchase furs must be confirmed.'"
"But there are many, many other people with money outside of trading companies. The heads of the tanneries and the people who trade in the fur-tanning materials all have reason to be pessimistic about the future of the fur trade in this town. They're going to be looking for capital in order to get into new businesses, and they'll be happy to deal with the merchants that are threatening the town in order to raise that capital. The council's policy probably is the best choice they have, but hardly anyone actually thinks that such a policy is going to stop the fur from being completely bought up. Let me say it again-"
"-this town's fur will be completely bought out."
"You know then that there's no time to go to another city and borrow the money, so I can't help you. As you said, I have no connections here,"
"Ah, but you do have one huge asset."
"huge asset"
"That's right. You have your lovely companion."
"... That's absurd."
"I figured you'd think so. But there's a reason I chose you."
"We'll claim she's a nobleman's daughter and sell her."
"Wha-?"
"Think it's impossible?"
"My name is Fleur Bolan. Formally, I am Fleur von Eiterzentel Bolan, eleventh heir to the Bolan clan, which swears fealty to the kingdom of Winfiel. We are title-bearing nobility."
"Of course, we're fallen nobility that have trouble even finding food, but the name is grand, isn't it? Once we fell so low that we couldn't afford even bread to feed ourselves, I was sold to a newly wealthy merchant."
"That's the kind of woman I am, so that's why I know one or two places to sell a girl with a noble name. What say you?"
"Your companion can easily pass as nobility. I would know,"
"Naturally, selling her is not the objective. As I said before, they're going to limit fur purchases to cash only in order to prevent a run on the fur market, but the trading firms here won't lend money to an outside merchant, right? But there's more than one kind of trading firm. If you can give them a good enough reason to, they'll float you a loan 124/237 in exchange for a cut of the profits, and I happen to know one. 'Selling a noble maiden' is just a pretense, and the trading firm understands that. They just need her as collateral in case our deal falls through. That's how I can guarantee it."
"I - no, we're not asking you to pawn off your precious companion."
"We?"
"I'm going on a pilgrimage,"
"we."
"This may well be my last chance to go on the journey. I've thought to do it many times in the past and have been able to put away some capital for it. But I was never able to work up the resolve..."
"I'll hand over this inn."
"After all, don't all merchants dream of the same thing?"
New Convo:

"Let us know by tomorrow night whether you're in or out."
"Come, you."
"... Ugh... is it morning?"
"Whatever were you doing last night?"
"It was a very... intense conversation."
"I, uh... appreciate the gesture."
"I ought to get my scent on you, after all."
"I am worried about you,"
"Sorry."
"As you might have guessed, there's talk of a huge business opportunity."
"From that fox?"
"Yes. Or more properly, from Eve, that merchant woman, and Arold, the master of this inn."
"Hnn."
"Oh, indeed?"
"Having only heard what they had to say, I haven't figured out the angle yet, and of course, I haven't given them an answer. But..."
"But?"
"The profit is-"
"Greater than my preference?"
"It is great."
"The profit is this inn itself - or that and more."
"That would be... quite close to fulfilling your dream, would it not?"
"It would,"
"What is there to debate, then?"
"I seem to recall that owning a shop is your dream, and if that's so, I've no call to stop you."
"What ails you? You look like a neglected hound,"
"Were you so happy being opposed by me?"
"I assumed you would refuse, then I could go with the prevailing winds and nicely withdraw,"
"So you expected I'd shine some light on things with my usual wits and foresight."
"That was part of it."
"And the rest?"
"Well, here you are making that irritated face-"
"You dunce,"
"-so I would ask you in return: Why the sudden change? You hated the idea of me getting involved in business here."
"Hmph,"
"You really are... ah, 'tis not worth saying. I know well what a fool you are. And 'tis a burden on me, ordering you about all the time."
"Honestly..."
"In the end, I spoke and acted only out of my own interest. For example, I do feel that simply being able to roam about with you is the best thing for me. All the times I acted as though I was teaching you some great truth of the world, it was just to keep traveling with you. In truth, it was painful."
"This is absurd."
"You should weigh the danger you risk against the profit you stand to gain and act if you feel it is worth it. Wasn't it always your dream to own a shop? I don't want to get in the way of that."
"You're not in the way-"
"And anyway, if I hadn't come along, you'd be able to get involved in anything you wanted, and if your opponent tried to deceive you, you'd be at the ready, waiting to outsmart him and make a huge profit. You had the spirit and recklessness to do that, didn't you? Have you forgotten it?"
"Nothing defends its nest like a human male does."
"Er-"
"But I cannot blame you for that. You... no, I always found your face rather charming when it was so scared of me."
"I was always quite selfish in my dealings with you. You could stand to be a bit selfish with me, too. And if you'd rather forget about me..."
"You can safely turn your back to me. Right up until you get bitten."
"Still, there were things about the deal they proposed that made me hesitate."
"Oh?"
"In order to raise the amount of money they need for the deal, they have to use you."
"Go on."
"They're going to pass you off as a noble maiden and put you in pawn to a trading company."
"Don't tell me that's what gave you such sweats last night."
"... You aren't angry?"
"I am only angry if you thought I would be."
"You still do not understand?"
"You truly are just unbelievable..."
"Am I not your partner? Or am I just a maiden you fancy yourself protecting?"
"Do I not have some of my own virtues? If I can be of some use to your trade, then happily would I turn myself in!"
"So I truly need your cooperation,"
"Hmph. I was a stand-in for you once before, but that was to thank you for being kind to me. This time, there's no thanking."
"friendly"
"Stop what you're saying."
"So, is there aught else you're worried about?"
"Of course. I'm worried it may be a trap."
"If your opponent has a scheme, counter it. The bigger their scheme..."
"The bigger the scheme, the bigger the profit when you upset it."
"I am Holo the Wisewolf. 'Twould be a fine thing, indeed, if my partner were some worthless merchant."
"So, then,"
"Yes?"
"Breakfast, right?"
"Enjoy your books, and don't cry too much."
"It's like a vault."
"The blessings of God be upon you,"
"Hnn!... Oh. Not giving alms, are you?"
"No alms, I'm afraid. I'd like to ask you some questions."
"Hell, ask anything you like."
"It's about the church,"
"What do you want to know? How many mistresses the priest has? Who the father of the child that nun gave birth to a while back was?"
"Those are fascinating, but no. I was wondering how much bread this church bakes."
"Heh, it's been some time since I've been asked that."
"Oh?"
"Used to be, merchants like you would come to ask all the time. You want to know how the church here fares, yes? Seems it's not bringing people in the way it used to. Guess God needs more propaganda."
"Look at the feet."
"I've been to many towns in this area, but the church here is the best. They may not give out huge amounts of bread or beans, but the quality is always good. Although..."
"Although?"
"Although - the bishop scatters more money about the town than he does bread among the beggars."
"How can you tell?"
"Oh, I can tell. When a splendid carriage that has its own escort to drive away beggars like me drives up, I can tell. And it's plain as day what kind of dinner was served from the garbage they throw away. And looking at how many cocky men about town come to that dinner, I can tell how important the guest was. Impressive, is it not?"
"Could you not use your insight to raise your position in society?"
"You don't get it, do you, pal? God said, 'Blessed are the poor,' didn't he? Do you get a warm, happy feeling in your gut from just a piece of crusty black bread and two copper coins?"
"I know I do."
"Anyway, so I don't know what it is you're planning,"
"but if you try to deal with this church, they'll just hang you out to dry. I only know one merchant who worked with them for a long time, and even he wound up screaming at them in that hoarse voice of his."
"The statue dealer?"
"Statues? Ah yeah, I guess he did haul some of those. He a friend of yours?"
"Sort of. So... did he deal in anything else?"
"I thought for certain he was a salt merchant. Wasn't he?"
"Why would you think that?"
"Whoa, easy there, friend. Is he some kind of rival? I don't want to get in trouble just because you asked me some questions,"
"Sorry,"
"He's not a rival. He's someone I'm going into business with myself."
"... Ah, so you're looking for scraps from his background, eh? Well, you look like a good sort. I suppose you wouldn't tell an out-and-out lie. Sure, I'll tell you."
"Oh, I only meant that there are plenty of merchants who try to use us, but most of them think they're better than us. And even fewer spare me any admiration for my words. That's all I meant."
"Ah, but anyway, it's a simple thing,"
"Sometimes when that merchant would visit the church, salt would fall from between the cracks of his cargo. I would have been able to tell from the smell if it had been salt used for packing fish or meat - it would've made a fine addition to some liquor. But as salt goes, it tasted poorly. That's why I made him as a salt merchant."
"So that's how it is. Anything else you want to know?"
"You've given me the secret to living a happy life. That's more than enough."
"Goodness, you're here early,"
"I must assume it's the cold wash water making you pull such a face."
"Oh, aye, and it's on that account I may be a bit cold myself,"
"How many merchants do you suppose have come to speak with me?"
"Can you not imagine that your beauty was their aim?"
"Smiles are gold, words silver. How many boorish louts do you suppose offered copper coins?"
"I'll admit I've come to ask some rather boorish things myself."
"I've no doubt of that. Owe a merchant a favor, and he'll always come to collect. So, what is it you want to know?"
"It's about the Council of Fifty,"
"I hear they've come to a conclusion. They say they're going to allow fur sales but not on credit."
"Customers were asking me about it all last night. Honestly, one or two of them could've at least brought me a love letter."
"A contract is a merchant's only love letter."
"Ah, 'tis true that loving and being loved is not enough to fill one's belly,"
"Hmm,"
"Though for a woman, that's not really true."
"Though for my part all I need is but a glance, and I'm satisfied. I feel as though I should thank you for the meal!"
"Sir, you are unfair! That was what I was going to say!"
"Were most of the people that came to ask you questions frequent customers?"
"Huh? Frequent?"
"I guess I'd say it's been about half regulars and half not. Only..."
"... Only?"
"Only a lot of the new customers have been rather careless. You're the only one among them who's asked proper questions."
"Oh, come now,"
"I won't tell them a thing when they're like that. Foreign merchants may have sharp ears, but they've also loose tongues. They'll come in and just blurt out, 'So I hear fur buying is going to be cash only, is that true?' It's absurd!"
"They're failures as merchants,"
"By the way,"
"Yes?"
"I'd like to ask about the church here-"
"Uh, please lower your voice,"
"If you're asking about the church, you must have heard at least a bit already."
"Well, I suppose..."
"Take my advice, you shouldn't get involved."
"So there is a power struggle, isn't there?"
"We serve uncommon dishes here, so we're one of the places that caters the church's dinners."
"I don't know all the details, but it seems they're inviting powerful figures from all over. Once we were up for two nights straight cooking for some Church bigwig who'd come from far away."
"So they're solidifying their power base,"
"Yes. And they've been very careful about their reputation, like it's clay that hasn't dried yet. They give generously to the poor, but whence comes their money, no one knows. So there's no telling what might happen to whoever says anything. Everyone whispers to each other about how if the Church's eye falls upon them, they won't be able to stay in the city."
"If this is all true, why are you telling me?"
"Well, I wouldn't tell just anyone."
"For future reference, might I ask why you're making an exception?"
"Well, if I had to venture to say..."
"I suppose it would be because you have the scent of another woman about you."
"So it's your pride as a barmaid, then?"
"There is that, but there's something about you that just makes a girl with a bit of confidence want to have a go. Do you get that a lot?"
"Well, then there's only one explanation. You've only recently met the girl at your side."
"It's because you seem a very gentle person,"
"I'll bet no one gave you a second look when you were wandering about on your own, but once we see that you're with another girl, we women get 149/237 curious. If a beast sees a single sheep on its own, it might be too lazy to hunt it, but if a wolf is with that sheep, then we begin to wonder - is that sheep really so tasty? And we covet it for ourselves."
"That's why I'd very much like you to bring your companion by the tavern."
"You've already given me that invitation,"
"Oooh, that composure is so frustrating."
"I'm a sheep, after all. We're unsympathetic creatures,"
"Of course, I'll tell no one of this conversation."
"Not even your charming companion?"
"So, you've told me everything, you say?"
"Without leaving out a bit."
"It seems I need to teach that girl a few things about territory."
"But it seems you're coming to understand the truth of certain things."
"For a draft horse to be free despite its reins, it must anticipate the will of its driver."
"So,"
"What think you of all this?"
"What do you think?"
"I find no fault with your explanation itself. It all more or less makes sense."
"I'm a wisewolf, not a god. If you start to think me an oracle, I'll vanish."
"Before a big deal, I always start to feel like I want to ask someone's opinion."
"Hah, even though you've already come to a decision? Would you change your mind if I tearfully begged you to?"
"Even if I did brush it off, you'll still be there at the inn. I'll complete the deal, then return. That is all there is to it."
"Aye, and once you can say those words without blushing, then you'll be a proper man."
"I must say, though, that you were certainly energetic during your explanation there. Of course"
"I'm not saying that is a bad thing. Males are at their best when chasing their prey."
"But you just want me to pay attention to you once in a while, too, yes?"
"Got it in one,"
"However, what will become of me should the deal fall through?"
"Well, you're collateral. So if we can't return the money, you'll be sold off somewhere."
"Oh ho."
"So that was what gave you such nightmares?"
"... That, too."
"Should it come to that, I'll have to pick someone a bit cleverer as my next partner,"
"Indeed. It'd be best to cover such a fool in the dirt kicked up as you left him,"
"Big words from the brat who practically cried when I nearly left before."
"But I shall cooperate because I trust you."
"Naturally."
"Well then, shall we go?"
"at night"
"You merchants are a troublesome lot indeed,"
"If I must put on an act even in my own inn room, when am I to relax?"
"For some time after we met... no, even recently, you've seemed to always put on a bit of an act around me."
"It's the first time I've ever traveled with a girl. Took time to get used to."
"And yet when we'd just met, your nostrils would puff just from walking about with me,"
"Aye, and would your tail puff up if you saw me with another woman?"
"You've got a lot of nerve."
"But just like that, a male will gradually reveal his true colors, and eventually turn into someone you never would have expected."
"Isn't that true for more or less anyone as you become close to them?"
"Fool. Don't you humans have a saying, 'Feed not the fish you catch?'"
"That doesn't apply here. I didn't catch the fish, it snuck into my wagon bed on its own, didn't it? Forget about giving it food; I should be charging it for transport."
"Hmph... What I meant was, don't forget your original intention."
"There's something irritating about that,"
"It's your imagination... No, perhaps you're right."
"Can you see into my mind?"
"Fool."
"Ouch!"
"Are you coming?"
"Of course, it's also true that I can easily take your hand only because we've been traveling for so long together. But"
"do not poets speak of wishing to stay always as they were upon first meeting a lover?"
"You might be well returning to that time, but for my part, I'd collapse from overwork."
"Worry not, for I would be there at your deathbed,"
"Sorry to keep you waiting."
"Well then, shall we begin?"
"So, what did you learn from your poking about?"
"I learned that you did indeed sell statues to the Church, that you parted on bad terms, and that fur sales are going to be restricted to cash,"
"Based on my experience and intuition as a merchant, I believe that what you've told me is all true, Eve."
"Oh?"
"But there is one thing I am worried about."
"Which would be?"
"The reason for your angry split with the Church."
"The reason for my split? I suppose you would wonder about that,"
"The bishop of the church here is a relic of the good old days, a past he can't forget,"
"He's ambitious. In his younger days, he came here as a missionary, enduring hellish hardship, and what got him through it was his goal of becoming powerful and influential. He wants to establish a cathedral here. In other words, he wants to be an archbishop."
"An archbishop-"
"As I said before, I may have fallen into disgrace, but I'm nobility. When I began searching this area for good business opportunities, I heard tell of a bishop turning an untoward profit. It was the bishop here. At the time, he was using a trade company as a front and using tithes to get in on the fur trade, but in the end, he just shut himself up in his church and counted figures. He was getting deeper and deeper in the red. So I proposed a way to kill two birds with one stone."
"And that would be the statue trade."
"Exactly. And I didn't just sell him statues. I'm nobility of the kingdom of Winfiel, after all. I can still speak to those in power. I put him 161/237 in contact with the archbishop there, whose power base is unshakable."
"I'm glad you understand. That will make this easier to explain. It's as you've said. The reason I contented myself with the thin margins I made by selling statues was because I was counting on the bishop here to become an archbishop. But then-"
"As the bishop profited from his deal with me and solidified his position, people around him started to divine what his goal was, and the bishop set about eliminating obstacles. The current affair was just a convenient excuse for him to cut me off. He owed me. He probably thought that the longer I was around, the more unfavorable demands I would make of him. And of course, I had planned to do exactly that. It was my right. But he decided he'd rather deal with an already-established trade firm instead of a single merchant just trying to establish herself. Even I can understand the reasoning, but that doesn't mean I agree with it."
"So we argued, and we split,"
"I see. So that's what made it hard for you to turn your statues into cash and why you can't very well just wait for next year's northern campaign."
"Understood,"
"Let's discuss the particulars of the deal,"
"... Yes, let's."
"I'm Luz Eringin, representative for the Delink Company."
"I am Kraft Lawrence."
"Do have a seat,"
"I have already heard the particulars from the honorable head of the Bolan house."
"So let's not waste time with empty chitchat,"
"I would ask you one thing,"
"I have heard that you, Mr. Lawrence, are a member of the Rowen Trade Guild?"
"Yes,"
"Rowen, then. I do believe Lord Goldens has dealt with you many times. Perhaps it was he from whom I heard yours is a keen-eyed guild."
"If you're attached to such a guild, you're a man to be reckoned with indeed, and your companion is a girl from the nobility. Now, if I might explain what the four of us have decided."
"Two thousand pieces of trenni silver."
"Ms. Eve proposed 2,500, but we're unable to deal in that amount with individual merchants. This is for that... fur business that's going around, is it not? Thus, in exchange, we will waive our standard commission and lend you the full amount. But as we do not have that 166/237 much silver on hand at the moment, the remittance will be in the form of sixty gold lumione"
"That's generous of you,"
"This is an investment,"
"You're a clever person. You've managed to pull profit from the state and arrangement of this town. There is little doubt you will use this success to reach still greater heights, and we wish to share that good luck. And"
"you are a fortunate man. It was nothing less than good fortune that led you two to meet. And you are not losing yourself to excitement about a deal this large. We believe this is because you've become accustomed to good luck. In our business, the element of fortune is a very important one. Unless one is accustomed to such fortune, one can make mistakes. On that count, we trust you."
"Our job is not unlike prospecting for a gold mine. To find partners, we won't shrink away from investing some money."
"So, how are we to accept the money that will silence so many wagging tongues?"
"You'll be buying up fur from the Arkieh Company, correct? You certainly have a good eye. I would love for you to tell us your secret-"
"My voice is a bit hoarse these days. Makes it hard to talk,"
"The transaction? That will be at your preference."
"What do you want to do?"
"'Tis hard to sleep with such brightly glittering coins lighting the darkness."
"A memorable answer! As one handles larger and larger amounts of money, one's pride rises as well. Such freedom makes it easy to become haughty and sarcastic. But your words, modest yet incisive - that is true freedom. We must all learn from your example."
"Well then, shall we remit it to you immediately before you go to buy up your fur?"
"Yes, if you please,"
"Very well."
"Let us pray for a successful transaction,"
"An unpleasant man,"
"I've never met his like before. It made me realize just how small a merchant I am,"
"... Do you really think so?"
"Yes. Here I struggle to make a few hundred silver pieces, but now I've seen an entirely different level."
"And yet you managed to have quite the wit with him."
"Oh, that business about the gold coins?"
"It was quite refreshing to hear such wit,"
"You threw Eringin off balance. He won't underestimate a traveling merchant again."
"I'm honored,"
"Are you sure you're not the son of some wealthy merchant house?"
"There are evenings when I feel like that."
"I give up,"
"Are you not thirsty after such speech?"
"Here's to success,"
"I suppose it's a bit late to be asking this-"
"What's that?"
"Where did you pick up your companion?"
"Wha-?"
"Is it that odd for me to ask?"
"I did say I wouldn't pry, but I am curious."
"Yes, well... people often ask."
"So where did you pick her up? I won't be surprised if you tell me she's the daughter of some rich landlord, overthrown in a peasant uprising."
"Evidently she was born in the north. She lived for a long time in the wheat fields of the south."
"Oh?"
"I'd done many deals in a town in the area, so I stopped in on my travels to see a friend, but then she snuck into my wagon bed."
"She said she wanted to return to her homeland, and after various twists and turns, I wound up acting as her escort."
"Sounds like an encounter dreamt up by some two-copper bard,"
"It's those twists and turns that I wonder about,"
"But I doubt you'd even tell that to a priest."
"I certainly couldn't tell a priest would be more accurate."
"Well, you've surely dressed her nicely. It's clear enough it was an encounter you cherish."
"The moment I let my guard down, she bought them herself."
"I don't doubt it. She seems a clever girl."
"And you seem to get along well,"
"Though I'd recommend you keep your voices just a bit lower in the inn."
"It's to be treasured. Money can buy companionship but not its quality."
"The rich merchant who bought me was a terrible man,"
"If I claimed not to want your sympathy, I'd be lying, but it's ancient history now. And he died soon after."
"Is that... so."
"Yeah. You probably know this, but in my homeland, it's the wool trade that prospers. He made a fortune competing with foreign rivals in wool futures, and just when he'd gotten gold sufficient to boost his own status, he went bankrupt when the king changed policies. The deal was huge, an unbelievable amount to fallen nobles like us, who 172/237 had trouble even buying bread. But he was a proud man, prouder even than the nobility, so when his ruin was certain he slit his own throat. That was the only part about him worthy of the Bolan name."
"The marriage ceremony was grand. My butler cried, saying how it was one of the finest in the history of the Bolan house. Of course, to me it was a funeral. But there were good things about it. I didn't have to worry about how I would eat. And I didn't get pregnant."
"And nobody saw me stealing money from his coin purse, bit by bit. Once he was bankrupt and the entire household was forfeit, it was enough for me to start on my own as a merchant."
"It's my dream, you see, to build something bigger than him and his company,"
"It was only good luck that allowed him to buy me. In truth, I'm not so cheap as to be bought by a merchant like him, and I want to prove it. Childish, no?"
"Ha, please, forget all this. Sometimes I just feel like I want to talk about it, that's all. I suppose it means I've a ways to go yet,"
"No, that's not it."
"I was jealous of you two,"
"How absurd. What we should be worrying about is profit. Am I wrong?"
"Right you are,"
"We'll make for the deal as soon as the council announces its decision. Keep Arold informed as to your location."
"I shall."
"This deal will go well,"
"Of course,"
"That was certainly an aggravating way to spend time,"
"You were as meek as a kitten."
"Well, this 'kitten' is what you're borrowing money on. I had no choice."
"You were a great help"
"Thank you."
"Was there anything that worried you?"
"There were many things that bothered me. There is a saying that there's a demon who sings an ill-omened song buried at the crossroads."
"I've heard that one."
"Oh?"
"There are traveling musicians who carry instruments and wander from town to town, and sometimes they're accused of being servants of a demon and blamed for bringing bad luck or sickness with them. And the place where they hang such musicians is always the crossroads outside of town."
"Oh ho."
"Then, once the demon musician is dead, they wish for its spirit to go haunt some other place. That's why crossroads near towns are kept so carefully free of stones with holes in the road quickly filled. If someone were to stumble there, it's said the buried demon could come back to life."
"Hrnph. Humans believe all sorts of things,"
"Do wolves have no superstitions?"
"..."
"Now that you mention it, I've realized - we don't."
"Well, it's nice you've nothing that stops children from being able to pee at night."
"Just so you know, I'm not talking about me,"
"Heh."
"You never asked me if her words were true."
"As though if you had, I would've teased you, looked down on you, made fun of you. Then I would've told you, and you'd owe me."
"It was a close shave, indeed,"
"I understand why it is that you're trying to determine everything for yourself. Selling me is making you feel a strange sense of responsibility, isn't it? But I also know that people aren't that strong. If they have a way of knowing for certain what the truth is, they'll want to use it. And yet you don't - why?"
"If I forget the distinction there, you'll be the one that gets angry."
"... You're so honest. Why don't you try relying on me a bit more?"
"I'm not so clever,"
"You can get used to anything with practice."
"Would you like to practice?"
"Practice relying on you?"
"Are you telling me not to set such a nasty trap? I'm not angry,"
"If you are, you are."
"Well then, this time 'tis no trap. Practice relying on me as much as you like."
"... That's just what you'd say, isn't it?"
"Being read by you - I'm a disgrace as a wisewolf."
"Even I learn eventually."
"Sit,"
"Ah, but you're just as softhearted as you ever were."
"Even if I lure you into a trap and laugh my fill, and you become angry, you'll still not exhaust your patience with me."
"Well, I don't know about that."
"No, you will not. I know it,"
"'Tis a truth that people change over time. Even a little while ago, you'd be frozen in fright if I were to do this kind of thing."
"No careless touching!"
"Fool,"
"I truly am a failure as a wisewolf, having you fret over me so."
"Honestly, me relying on you is another story entirely. We were speaking of you relying upon me!"
"When will you get flustered for me?"
"I might if you would tell me what you're truly thinking about."
"Come, now-"
"What?"
"I want you flustered."
"Fine then,"
"Can we not end our travels here?"
"Do you think I jest?"
"I do,"
"You really are quite charming."
"I am quite serious. If I were to say such a thing in jest, you would become truly angry."
"But you'll forgive me, because you're kind."
"My contract with you... it was to escort you to your homeland."
"We are nearly there."
"So why here, now-"
"People change. Situations change. And my mood also changes."
"It seems there are fields yet untilled. But this is no place to be treading with one's boots on."
"Why this, all of a sudden?"
"'Tis just as that fox said."
"... Eve?"
"Money can buy companionship, but..."
"... But not its quality?"
"Aye, and so she said to treasure your encounters. That mere human girl, thinking herself so great..."
"I want our meeting to be something good. And so I think it is best that we part here."
"You fool. Do you still not understand?"
"This journey has been truly wonderful. I've laughed, cried... This cunning old wolf has even screamed in anger from our fights. I had been alone for so long, so these days have been very bright indeed. I've even wished that they would go on forever."
"So just-"
"You're very clever, but you lack so much experience. Since you're a merchant who toils for profit, I thought you would soon understand, but... I'm not saying this because I don't want to watch you die. I've... already become used to that idea,"
"If I'd had a bit more self-restraint, I might just have endured until my homeland. I had been confident of that when we put the last village behind us, but... you're simply too soft hearted. You accept everything that I do and give me anything I wish for. It's terrible to endure it... just terrible."
"So let us part here."
"It is just... too frightening,"
"Have you realized?"
"In truth, I would have preferred you not to, but if I let it go any longer, I'd lose the best chance. You understand, don't you, what I mean by this?"
"Even you haven't seen such a tale?"
"Tale? Whatever do you mean...? Oh, I see. You're quite clever with your words."
"Stories where they live happily ever after,"
"There is no such thing. Of course, I enjoy speaking with you. I enjoy it too much - so much I just want to eat you up."
"But no matter how delicious the treat, one cannot go on eating the same thing forever, can they? It becomes tiresome, does it not? And worst of all, as I enjoy it more and more, I'll begin to need more and more stimulation, and then what? You know, don't you, what lies at the top of those stairs?"
"Eventually I will not be able to get what I crave, and all the talk that was once such a delight will fade, its joy remaining only in memory. And it's then that I will think back to how much fun it was when we first met."
"That is why I was frightened. Frightened of the way it sped the erosion of this delight. The way your"
"kindness did,"
"I've long been impressed at how clever you humans are to have the saying, 'All's well that ends well.' Though I might think to myself, 'Oh aye, it's quite so,' I still find myself unable to summon the resolve to end something that gives me pleasure. I don't know what would happen if you came with me all the way to my homeland. That's why I wish to end our travels here, so that it can be a delight from start to finish."
"Are you not close to achieving your dream? Is this not the perfect time to bring this chapter of your story to a close?"
"I... suppose so,"
"Also, I was thinking of telling you later and surprising you."
"I was in the book,"
"There were all sorts of things in the past, things I'd forgotten about entirely until seeing them,"
"Read."
"'Wheaten tail,' they say. Such complicated words,"
"Looks like you've been a heavy drinker since ancient times,"
"I remember it vividly even now. There was a rival drinker, a girl a bit younger than you, arid we weren't so much drunk as we were 189/237 unable to fit any more liquor in. And in the end, it was even more heroic, you see-"
"No thanks. I don't want to hear any more,"
"Ah, but that's nostalgic. And I'd forgotten it entirely until reading it."
"Drinking, eating, singing, dancing. I'm sure it's been rewritten any number of times, but the fun atmosphere still comes through. Surely most of the old legends were comedies."
"Aye. 'Twas a delight. Come now, stand up."
"...?"
"Right, right, left, left, left, right - you see, do you not?"
"This dance is bad if you're drinking, though. Your eyes will start to swim before you know it,"
"So it's right, right, left and left, left, right - got it? Right, here we go!"
"There!"
"Hmph."
"Hnn - hmph."
"Whoops-"
"... What are we doing here?"
"I suspect it would be better not to ask."
"The direction to my homeland was also written."
"So, have you read them all?"
"I have. The oldest tells the tale of the beginning of this town, of the person who set up the first pillar of the first building for people to live in, though it was uncertain whether he was really a person."
"A friend of yours, then?"
"Maybe."
"Still,"
"we ought to return the books before we spill wine on them. It's not as though we need to copy them, and most of it was already in my head to begin with."
"Indeed. And there's no guarantee you won't fall asleep on them and get drool all over the pages."
"I do not do such things."
"I know. Just like you don't snore,"
"Would you like me to tell you just what things you talk about in your sleep?"
"I expect it goes something like this: 'I beg you, please, don't eat anymore!'"
"You're making fully enough to pay for it,"
"Sure, in hindsight. If we hadn't made money in Kumersun, you would literally be devouring all my assets."
"Hmph. Doesn't the saying go, 'If you've eaten poison, you may as well eat the whole dish?' If it came to that, I'd just gobble you up, too."
"I'll just bet. So, once we've returned the book, what do you want to eat?"
"We'll decide that once we're there."
New Convo:

"Seems all is going well, then,"
"Yes, all's well. A little too well,"
"You've been burned many times in the past,"
"How many thousands did my body fetch, I wonder?"
"Mm, about two thousand."
"Oh ho. How much wine would that buy?"
"An unbelievable amount of the finest quality."
"And you're going to take that money and profit with it, yes?"
"If all goes well, I'll treat you to as much drink as you like."
"Then I'll have..."
"Then I'll have... enough so that I start vomiting even before I'm drunk,"
"What? You lost the drinking game?"
"Yes... Still, that's quite natural. Think about it, will you? My opponent was not as beautiful as I, but she still had looks enough - and poured such wine into her guts as made her face turn red and her cheeks puff out. Once I, a proud wisewolf, saw what a disgrace I would have to become, I couldn't stop my gorge from rising."
"a disgrace,"
"In any case, you seem to enjoy liquor well enough, despite your loss,"
"You are only and ever a fool."
"You were very fast to read them all. It takes me near a month to read even one short tale,"
"Mr. Rigolo said to tell you that if there is anything else you need, please feel free to borrow it,"
"Anything you want to read?"
"Please do look around, then. No matter how valuable these books, it seems a bit sad to let them go unread,"
"Thank you very much,"
"I should say that the books you borrowed were written by Mr. Rigolo's grandfather, and as such use modern language. Some of the older books, however, use archaic writing styles and may be difficult to read."
"Er-"
"Yes?"
"I hate to be presumptuous, but would you mind terribly showing me Mr. Rigolo's garden?"
"I'm sure the flowers in the garden will be pleased to see you,"
"Holo,"
"Be careful with the books."
"I know, I know."
"It's quite all right. Mr. Rigolo's way of handling them is much worse, I assure you."
"Would you care for something to drink?"
"Ah, er, no - don't trouble yourself."
"give all you are able to."
"Ah, well,"
"What's this?"
"... This, it can't be-"
"Is something the matter?"
"Oh, goodness... this is rather embarrassing. I just thought this statue of the Holy Mother was so well made, I could do with having her hear my troubles."
"Goodness."
"I am a lamb in the Church's flock, so I would be happy to hear your worries."
"I shall restrain myself,"
"This is a drink made from bread, though I don't know if it will suit you."
"Kvass, is it?"
"Goodness, sir merchant, you're quite knowledgeable,"
"It hasn't been popular recently, so you don't see it much these days."
"I myself prefer it to the Blood of God... ah, er - please forget I said that!"
"Blood of God,"
"Here you go,"
"I take it Mr. Rigolo is at the meeting?"
"Yes. This morning there was an urgent message, and... oh, heavens, I'm sorry, I was told not to say anything about it."
"Not at all, and in any case I wouldn't ask about the subject of the meeting. It was a poor choice of topic. I had wanted to ask about the glass here, so it is unfortunate I could not see him again."
"Oh, is that so...? Well, this glass was gathered piece by piece, and it took over three years to collect it all."
"I see. Mr. Rigolo's passion for his garden is clear indeed,"
"With so much passion, I can understand why he would make such bold declarations as saying he wants to quit his post as the council's secretary."
"Though it is his job, he stays gazing at the garden until the last possible moment."
"I would say he might as well, but the secretary is an important post."
"God says that labor is valuable. But sometimes I feel that such a modest desire as being able to spend time in one's garden could also come true,"
"Ah, but modest desires are the hardest to fulfill."
"You may be right."
"And the most joyous times are the ones that you wish would last forever."
"Is something the matter?"
"I'm simply moved by your words."
"You flatter me."
"However, I do believe it's a fortunate thing to be able to pursue a simple dream,"
"Did you find any good books?"
"Did you?"
"I had a very useful conversation,"
"Come with me,"
"Things are bad."
"It's an armed uprising."
"Lock your doors, and don't open them for anyone you don't know,"
"Y-yes!"
"I don't care how displeased they are with the council's decision, I doubt they'll come to the secretary's house, so you should be fine,"
"And of course, Rigolo will be safe."
"Right, let's go."
"We're off, then."
"You said an 'uprising,' but who is it actually?"
"The fur craftsmen and the people who supply them their tools and wares."
"This is bad."
"The council's decision can't be revoked, can it?"
"The council has to protect its credibility, so the decision will be upheld. The foreign merchants are already coming into the town. The craftsmen are desperate to prevent them from doing so, but it's probably impossible."
"And our fur deal?"
"The council's decision was exactly what my information said it would be. Assuming it's upheld, then the deal is still on."
"What shall we do? Shall we accept the money afterwards and do the fur buying in the meantime?"
"No,"
"I don't want any complications. We should go with the money in hand. You head to the Delink Company and pick up the coin."
"I'll make ready a boat,"
"We're ahead of everyone here. We can't act in haste."
"Let us meet at the inn. We'll finish the deal once everything is in order."
"Understood."
"Well then, shall we go?"
"Yes, let's,"
"You saw something - no, you saw it and thought something - so why did you not tell me what it was?"
"You've realized something dangerous about this deal. Am I wrong?"
"You are not."
"So why do you keep silent?"
"Do you want to know?"
"As far as the danger inherent in this deal goes, let's say I told you of it. It extends to me and to you. But having considered the possibilities, I've decided we should pursue the profit without worrying about the risk. The amount we stand to gain is worth risking my life for, and even should the danger extend to you, you can always avoid it with your own abilities. Of course-"
"-if it comes to that, it will be hard for us to reunite,"
"And if we were to have that conversation, this is what you would say-"
"... Do not throw away all that profit just to cling to a single thread of hope,"
"The only chance I have to keep traveling with you is to abandon the deal entirely."
"Do you think that will make me happy?"
"I do,"
"I won't say I'm happy. I'll never, ever say I'm sorry."
"I'll remember you as a cold, calculating merchant,"
"It would be bad for my reputation if you thought me a foolish one. Come, let us go retrieve our war funds."
"There is no God in this world,"
"If your omniscient, omnipotent God truly existed, how could he just watch as such suffering goes on?"
"How, indeed,"
"When you make a profit, I want the finest wine,"
"Of course,"
"We, too, shall pray for your good fortune,"
"When we next meet, I'll be a town merchant,"
"I can't have a worthless merchant for my companion."
"H-ho there. I got tired of waiting,"
"I brought the money."
"I've arranged for a ship. I found a captain whose profit vanished in the uprising. When I named him a good price, he said he'd set sail even if the navy should send ships to blockade him."
"The lot at the trading company won't shake their heads once they catch sight of our gold coins. Their eyes will be nailed to the money, and they'll nod in spite of themselves."
"In that case, let us go! This deal is a jest!"
"What's wrong?"
"When we buy fur with this money, the profit will come to four thousand silver pieces in the end, correct?"
"That's right,"
"And you've arranged for a ship, so now all we need to do is buy the fur."
"That's right."
"And you have a good sense for where to sell that fur."
"That's right."
"Do you doubt me?"
"No."
"Then what? Have you lost your nerve?"
"If we don't hurry, the merchants beyond the walls are going to get their money situations sorted. They've been making arrangements. We don't know where they might raise it from. Do you just want to bite down on your knuckle and look on as others turn an absurd profit? Are you listen-"
"Are you not frightened?"
"Me? Hah. Don't be absurd,"
"Of course I am."
"It's thousands of silver pieces we're talking about here. How could I not be frightened? A human life is a fragile thing in the face of that much money. I don't have the nerve to stay calm in that sort of scenario."
"There's no guarantee I won't change my mind and attack you,"
"Hah. Indeed. The reverse is also true. No, our suspicion of each other may only grow... but in either case"
"we can't continue taking these risks."
"I can tell by your face you want to ask me something stupid. You want to know why I'll go to such lengths to earn money, no?"
"Sorry, but I can't have you back out of the deal now."
"To be honest, I didn't want to use this. But consider the amount. I'll be in trouble if you pull out now. You understand, don't you?"
"So long as the deal goes well, your profit's guaranteed. So hand it over."
"A human life isn't worth much in the face of sixty gold pieces."
"That's right... and you don't want to find that out in person, do you?"
"God's blessings be upon those with wit and wisdom,"
"..."
"-!"
"We've both of us fallen short. Am I wrong?"
"My failure was in being sniffed out by you. That's what you meant by asking if I was scared, is it not?"
"The statue in Rigolo's house is one piece of evidence, isn't it?"
"You pretended to be dealing in stone statues, but what you were really doing was smuggling processed rock salt molded into statues."
"Could be..."
"I had reason to suspect you of smuggling salt, but it never occurred to me that it would be carved rock salt, since the Church would surely notice you carrying out smuggling on that scale."
"I'm sure you and the Church had a lovely honeymoon for a while. I've heard that it was throwing so much money around that nobody could figure out where it was coming from. But then it all ended, I'm guessing because of the northern campaign. The Church started to solidify its base of power and pulled out of the salt-smuggling racket rather than risk an uprising or two. And just then, this fur trouble came up. And being clever, this is what you proposed to the bishop-"
"If the merchants waiting outside the town were going to buy up all the fur, why not just do it ourselves?"
"The statue in Rigolo's house is certainly rock salt. And you're right that I was the one who brought the furs to the attention of that lousy bishop and right about him cutting me loose and finding another patron, as well. I'll leave it up to you as to whether to believe me or not,"
"Trust me,"
"And the reason you think I brought the deal to you... that's probably right, too."
"I'm a shield to protect you."
"I'm a salt smuggler who knows all the Church's worst secrets. Of course, before we parted ways, they guaranteed my life. It was a verbal contract, so you never know. If a good opportunity were to arise, though, I'm sure they'll use me again. So it must be true. 220/237 And I did make a profit myself. I didn't have any intention of starting an uprising, and I'm sure they know that."
"But you couldn't let the deal that you proposed to them get away."
"Exactly. Even if it means I'll be interfering with their expectations, I can t let this profit go."
"So you thought to yourself, 'They can kill one person, but it's hard to kill two.'"
"So what's it going to be?"
"It's going to be this,"
"..."
"..."
"Do you crave money so much?"
"D-don't you...?"
"I do - no..."
"I did."
"That's a funny-"
"Joke,"
"If you kill me and hide my corpse, it probably won't be found until long after the deal's done. The Church would never guess that our partnership had fractured. I have to say, I'm impressed. Or were you simply planning to take the gold and run?"
"No, you wouldn't do that. The reason you tried to kill me is the bag you were looking for when I first entered the storeroom. You're just dying to use it."
"So, it's the money you made smuggling salt? What you managed to pile up over time must be at least equal to what I brought - maybe more. And you were going to buy fur with all that, with me none the wiser."
"The reason you couldn't do the fur deal yourself is because you have too much money on hand. If you tried that alone, the Church would think nothing of killing you. So you brought me in. It's easy to kill one person, but killing two - that's hard. And you'll continue to pull together money to invest until the Church gets serious about eliminating us. It's one thing not to care about a stranger's life, but you don't even care about your own. All you care about is profit!"
"What is it...?"
"...?"
"What is it at the end of all of this that makes taking such absurd risks worthwhile?"
"I'm a merchant, too. Making money brings me happiness. But I don't know what lies at the end of it all. First you make one silver piece, then two. Then after two, three. But have you never stopped to consider what awaits at the end of this drive to quench that constant thirst?"
"Wh-what... what do..."
"What do I... think is waiting?"
"Are you so childish as to think something is waiting?"
"Every time I looked at the rich bastard that bought me, I wondered to myself - what could he possibly be doing with so much money? No matter how much you make, there's no end to it, but the next day comes, and you can't keep yourself from earning more. How awful to be rich, I thought."
"And I must look like a pathetic creature to you. After all, I chose the same path he did."
"I watched his vain efforts, even watched him die, and yet still I chose this path. Do you know why?"
"-- That's why,"
"Are - are you all right?"
"sorry,"
"Was it a robber?"
"A broken deal, then?"
"Oh, what's this..."
"What's wrong?"
"Obsession maybe?"
"Hey, are you all right?"
"She needs to see, does she?"
"She needs to see."
"Well, well!"
"Don't lay a hand on the collateral,"
"I said no one may enter-!"
"Why, you... you..."
"You fool!"
"Don't - don't tell me - don't tell me you called off the deal!"
"I certainly didn't. It was stolen right out from under me."
"Was that not your dream?!"
"It was my dream. No. It still is."
"Then why - why?"
"Why am I so calm, you mean?"
"We merchants worked a few things out, so I was left enough to buy you back from this company."
"Do - do you not remember why I was so frightened?"
"It's too embarrassing. I can't bring myself to speak of it."
"And then you came traipsing back, even knowing that, to appear before me, the Wisewolf of Yoitsu? What do you wish for? What do you desire? Tell me! Just tell me, damn you!"
"Your... wolf form."
"Leave it to me. You'll become a fullfledged merchant thanks to meeting me. We can end the story with a smile. It must be so!"
"What's the m-"
"Did you think I was going to ask you to use your wolf form to get the money back?"
"Eve is pursuing a deal tantamount to suicide. If the Church learns of it, our lives will be in danger, too. We should leave this town before the disturbance is over."
"-!"
"I didn't see Eve's true nature. She is obsessed with money. She thinks nothing of throwing her life away for it. But no number of lives will satisfy a deal like that."
"What deal are you going to go along with, then?"
"When crossing a dangerous bridge, once is enough."
"..."
"I love you."
"What do you even know about me?"
"I don't know much. I don't know if the decision your centuries of life has led you to is correct. But I do know one thing."
"Wishing for you to be mine might not make it so. But if I don't wish it, you'll never be mine."
"Eve chases profit, even though it puts her life in danger. Even though the moment she gets what she wants, it fades. There's a lesson to be learned there as a merchant. Call it a mirror. I thought I should try to be more like that,"
"You fool..."
"You'll take proper responsibility, won't you?"
"When the times comes, we'll part ways with smiles and leave it at that. There's no such thing as a journey that doesn't end. But-"
"But as it is, I don't think we could part with smiles right now. That's all."
"Anyway, why are you so pessimistic?"
"You wish to know why I am pessimistic?"
"Don't you prefer me tearful and sobbing?"
"You've rejected my notion, so you had best be prepared to take responsibility for what may come."
"... I will,"
"You took my foolishness seriously - seriously enough to lose all your profit. So I-"
"I'll go along with your foolish plan. However!"
"However?"
"I can't have a worthless merchant for my companion. Don't tell me you'll let your deal be stolen, then turn tail and run."
"Your kindness is quite frightening as well."
"... So, how will you get the money back?"
"Forget the profit. I'd rather have you give me back my initiative."
"Fool,"
"Do you think I would ever allow such a thing?"
"I'd be in trouble if I fell for you."
"I suppose you would be,"
"Mm."